# License and hardware purchase or renewal process

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4AIH/pages/149520415
**Page ID:** 149520415
**Version:** 17

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | @Paweł Kosecki |
| **Author** | @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed) |
| **Approvals** | @Wojciech Przybylski  @Anna Porębska-Osiecka  @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed)  @Paweł Kosecki  @Bartłomiej Bujnarowski  @Michał Wacięga |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidances** |  |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 3y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15688b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Abstract
--------

This procedure describes the license and hardware purchase or renewal process

Procedure
---------

1. Users requesting new hardware or licenses must create an order ticket in the JIRA "Needs" project (status: Helpdesk verification). Provide clear justification and business value to expedite approval.

   1. For existing license extensions (by License User/Owner), Internal HelpDesk member should clone the license order ticket in the "Needs" project (status: Helpdesk verification).
2. HelpDesk Team must reassign the order to the Procurement Team when:

   1. orders with estimated amount ≥ 1000$ (net price) for the whole order; or
   2. support is needed to collect offers from different vendors.
3. Once a final price is set, the order must be approved by the requesting employee's manager (status: MANAGER APPROVAL).
4. Next, the Cost Center Owner must approve the order. If the budget is insufficient, change to FIN Cost Center (contact @Ivo Hop).
5. Assign the ticket to an Internal HelpDesk member to continue. They should request Back Office (@Sabina Weselak) to proceed with payment (status: WAITING 4 PAYMENT).
6. After payment, Back Office must assign the ticket to the Internal HelpDesk member (status: WAITING 4 DELIVERY).
7. Finally, when license artifacts are delivered, the Internal HelpDesk member should update the linked License ticket (e.g., license key, amounts), inform the License User about the extension, and close the order ticket (status: CLOSED).

   1. Create a license ticket if this is a new purchase.

