# Procedure - Handling low priority bugs fixed in higher (major or minor) product version

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SUP/pages/160434662
**Page ID:** 160434662
**Version:** 24

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | @Dominik Foltyn |
| **Author** | @Dominik Foltyn |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Marcin Kopacz  @Wojciech Przybylski  @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed)  @Dominik Foltyn |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidances** |  |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 3y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15518b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

This procedure specifies how to proceed with low priority issues, that were fixed in the higher product version.

Examples:

* minor issue in project version of COMM reported by ACA fixed in product version of COMM
* low priority issue reported in Brief in EZY fixed in the higher version of Brief which requires major upgrade

Procedure
=========

1. Customer reports PROD issue to S4A (Jira or email to support@smart4aviation.aero), CS\* issue has been reported.
2. INT\* or SM\* issue opened and worked out. Product provides info that the fixed will provided in the next minor/major version (example: <https://jira.s4a.aero/browse/ACAINT-5796?focusedCommentId=987992&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-987992>)
3. Support team informs customer in CS\* ticket or email, about the solution - e.g. "Dear XYZ, The fix is available in product version (X.X). Fix will be delivered the next major upgrade/or during project XXX." and sets the issue status to "Waiting for Release" and provides the proper fixVersion (based on the information from project).
4. Customer might request the fix in the current version - in such case a discussion about the issue priority has to be started and [proper PO](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/PRODUCTS/S4A+Products+Home) shall help to clarify with customer the situation.
5. Product team delivers the fix
6. Delivery planning

   1. If we have planned bigger delivery to customer (major upgrade or product upgrade with new RFC or product delivery) and JIRA project for this activity already exists then support team moves Jira INT\*/SM\* issue to the dedicated Jira project and informs PM of this project about it. If required Support team updates the information provided to Customer and sets issue status to "Waiting 4 Deployment"->"Major Upgrade".  *example* (ACA scope): Support moves the ticket from ACAINT to ACAMIG and informs @Marcin Kopacz - fixVersion can be empty and should be updated by PM.
   2. If we do not have planned bigger delivery then support team updates \*INT ticked with version "\*Next.Major.Upgrade\*" and closes the ticket (if project test are not needed). Then support team sets CS\* issue status to "Waiting 4 Deployment" ->"Major Upgrade" and informs customer that "The issue has been fixed but is waiting for delivery of product version X.X which will be part of major upgrade. Detailed planning and schedule of this upgrade is unknown st this moment.  *example:* <https://jira.s4a.aero/browse/DALCOMM-4128>
7. CS\* issue can be transitioned to the next status (customer verification) once the version/fix is delivered to the customer acceptance tests
8. Done

Questions and answers:
======================

Q1. Whom should we redirect to when  customer claims they need fix in current production version (support does not have enough leverage to negotiate that) - step 4.

A1. Support should verify if the customer request is valid by checking the SLA priority definition, [PO](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/PRODUCTS/S4A+Products+Home) shall support the negotiations with customer in order to come to the consensus. In general the person which made decision to deliver fix in new product versions shall justify that decision.

Q2. how to move ACAINT to ACAMIG (what we need to fill in / change in order for this to be proper?) - step 6a.

A2. Use Move option, fixversion might be empty and shall be filled by PM who is responsible for the project backlog management

Q3. Do we want to implement such procedure for other customers as well?

A3. Yes this procedure is valid for all customers

