# Purchasing Procedure for Standard Hardware

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/1633452033
**Page ID:** 1633452033
**Version:** 9

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | Director of Software Development & Support |
| **Author** | @Wojciech Przybylski  @Sabina Weselak |
| **Approvals** | @Wojciech Przybylski  @Sabina Weselak |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Hardware Standard sets  Hardware for Sale KRK&GDN  Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Policy  Computer usage management |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15108b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. |
| **Version** |  |

**1. Purpose**

This procedure provides guidelines for the purchase of hardware for Smart4Aviation Group ensure that all hardware technology for the Staff Members is appropriate, value for money and, where applicable, integrates with other technology for the Smart4Aviation. The objective of this procedure is to ensure that there is minimum diversity of hardware within the Smart4Aviation Group. The purpose of this procedure is also to specify when and under what conditions staff equipment (Computer Software, Hardware and Peripherals) is exchanged and how to handle exceptions to this procedure.

**2. Scope**

This procedure applies to all Smart4Aviation Group Team Members.

**3.** **Definitions**

*Portable computer systems -* Includes devices such as laptops, notebooks and tablets

*Computer peripherals* - Include devices such as printers, scanners, external hard drives etc.

*Company* - see Smart4Aviation Group

*Smart4Aviation Group* is understood as Smart4Aviation B.V., Smart4Aviation America, AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand. Can also be called "*the Company*".

*Staff/Team Member* - a person working for Smart4Aviation Group based on B2B contract. Other contracts are out of scope of this Procedure.

### Procedure

1. Helpdesk Team, in cooperation with the Back Office, has established a standard set of equipment for Smart4Aviation Group use. The standards can be found here: [Hardware Standard sets](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0AAqs6gorP7SJUk9PVA) (confluence Hardware Standard sets)
2. Each *Portable computer systems* are procured for a standard lifespan of five (5) years.

   1. Heavy laptop users (e.g., developers, particularly those who maintain multiple project checkouts) may request a hardware replacement after three (3) years if their equipment's performance is deemed unacceptable. Such requests will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, subject to budgetary constraints,
   2. It is strongly discouraged to utilize hardware beyond its predefined lifespan, as it is not cost-effective and increases the complexity of software and hardware support. Therefore, replacement is recommended upon reaching the end of the predefined lifespan.
3. Each Monitor/Display are procured for a standard lifespan of eight (8) years.
4. New Team Members receive equipment in the following order of priority:

   1. Available *Portable computer systems* from the Helpdesk stock, provided they are no more than two (2) years old.
   2. Newly procured *Portable computer systems*.
5. A similar order of priority is applied for *Portable computer systems* replacements following the predefined lifespan.
6. All requests for the procurement of purchase *Portable computer systems* must be documented within Jira NEEDs project

   1. *Portable computer systems* for new Team Members are financed by Cost Center: Back Office, under the management of the Director of Back Office.
   2. *Portable computer systems* replacements are financed by the Cost Center: Support and Maintenance - under the management of the Director of Software Development & Support. refer to: <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Cq2FWZEs9TIxLL2Md5CYtd6RH41tlf56WB5wvpOvfl0/edit?gid=0#gid=0> (limited access)
7. Every twelve (12) months, the Helpdesk and BackOffice will review and update the [Hardware Standard sets](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0AAqs6gorP7SJUk9PVA) to ensure that the equipment remains current and aligns with operational requirements.
8. *Portable computer systems* aged between two (2) and five (5) years may be utilized as replacements or for specific requests (e.g., meeting rooms, special needs).
9. Obsolete, unused equipment may be offered for sale to Team Members. The list of available equipment can be found here: Hardware for Sale KRK&GDN.
10. Unserviceable *Portable computer systems* will be disposed of appropriately (procedure Disposal of electronic equipment [#hardware #utilisation] - procedure).
11. At any time (if appropriate) Team Member may request a change. In such case each request will be considered case by case, subject to budgetary constraints.
12. In the case of leased *Portable computer systems*, the lease term will be three (3) years. Prior to the lease expiration, the Helpdesk must notify the leasing company of any intent to purchase the equipment.

