# Personal Data Protection Breach Procedure

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170099350
**Page ID:** 170099350
**Version:** 10

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | Data Protection Officer |
| **Author** | @Michał Wacięga |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Sabina Weselak |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Personal Data Protection Policy (Polityka Bezpieczeństwa Danych Osobowych)  Security Incident Management Plan |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15158b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** |  |

Terms and Definitions
=====================

*Personal data* is understood as any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person; an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person (as defined in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation)). 

*Data subject* is understood as a natural person, identified or identifiable by the data.

*GDPR* is understood as Regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Data Protection Directive).

*Smart4Aviation Group* is understood as Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V., Smart4Aviation Americas, Inc., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Controller* is understood as an entity who has power to decide on purposes an means of processing of personal data.

*Processor* is understood as and entity who processes personal data on behalf of other entity (the controller), as a contracted service.

*Personal Data Breach* is understood as  a breach of security that leads to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.

*Supervisory authority* is understood as authority responsible for monitoring the application of the GDPR in order to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons in relation to processing and to facilitate the free flow of personal data within the EU.

*Data Protection Officer, DPO* is understood as a person formally appointed in order to inform and advise the company/employees in terms of data protection laws currently in force and its policies as well as in order to monitor their execution and acting as a point of contact for persons whose data are processed by the Smart4Aviation Group and a supervisory body.

Purpose
=======

This procedure provides guide about how to react to a breach of personal data protection.  This would consider loss of confidentiality, integrity and availability of personal data. The GDPR puts several obligations on the Personal Data Controllers regarding breaches:

* having a procedure in place regarding detection and assessment of the breaches if they pose a serious risk of infringement of data subjects' rights and freedoms i.e. might have serious adverse consequences to them; and
* maintaining a breach register in place; and
* notification to supervisory authority and affected data subjects; and
* being capable of mitigating and remediating the consequences of the breach for data subjects; and
* ensuring learning from breaches and implementing breach prevention controls as lessons learned.

Scope
=====

This procedure concerns:

* (Data) any personal data that is processed by any entity of the Smart4Aviation Group, regardless of whether the entity is the controller of the personal data in question, or is the processor od that data on behalf of some other entity e.g. a customer.
* (Personnel) personnel responsible for:

  + personal data protection (Data Protection Officer)
  + personal data processing in their work duties.
* (Data Subjects) any person responding to the personal data protection breach

Examples of Personal Data Breach for non-IT Staff
=================================================

Following are the examples of personal data breaches resulting in loss of confidentiality, integrity or availability of the data and/or underlying IT systems that process it.

| **Confidentiality Breaches** | **Integrity Breaches** | **Availability** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Sending personal data to wrong recipient (being an  unauthorized party), by mistake | Personal data edited by malicious employee | Critical service or vendor processing personal data disrupted for some business process loss of which causes serious adverse effect for the employee (e.g. payroll process disrupted where salary transfers are expected) |
| Theft of personal data by an employee | Personal data damaged due to hacker attack | Personal data storage hit by ransomware attack |
| Loss of personal data due to its medium being stolen (stolen laptop, stolen disk/memory stick/phone etc.) |  | Loss of critical infrastructure (power, networking) where personal data critical to be available |
| Dislosure of personal data due to Clean Desk Policy infringement (paper documents left accessible in public place, computer screen left unlocked etc.) |  | Accidental deletion of data that could not be restored from backups |
| Sharing sensitive data about health, contract details etc. of an employee with unauthorized staff |  | Deliberate deletion of data due to hacker attack |
| Granting access to a computer systen that processes personal data to an individual whose neither job position, duties, task or work assignment do not require having such access |  | Critical system processing personal data unavailable due to excessive load e.g. by DoS attack |
| Collection of too broad categories of personal data (processing without suitable legal basis), e.g. criminal records |  |  |
| Disclosure of job applicant's personal data to persons not involved in the recruitment process |  |  |
| Responding to a data access request where the requestor was not sufficiently identified as authorized recipient of the personal data |  |  |
| Computer system or a service processing personal data accessible without proper authorization of the user |  |  |
| Storage not wiped clean after equipment decomissioning and selling |  |  |
| Personal data in the equipment readable where device sent to a third party to be repaired |  |  |
| Computer system breach due to deliberate hacker attack |  |  |
| Payrol information leakage |  |  |

Personal Data Breach Reporting
==============================

Internally, personal data protection breaches are to be reported in Jira, SECURITY project, in the same manner as any other security incidents.

For reporting externally, a [dataprotection@smart4aviation.aero](mailto:dataprotection@smart4aviation.aero) email address is to be used.

Breach Log/Register
===================

Personal data breaches shall be documented in SECURITY ticket project in Jira, in same manner as other types of security breaches.

Personal Data Breach Management
===============================

Personal data protection breaches are to be treated as any security incident and follow common management process as outlined in Security Incident Management Plan. Where any security breach would be suspected or takes place, and assessment of any personal data protection consequences shall be performed. This includes inventoring any possible personal data categories that might have been a subject to the breach, and the nature of the breach in terms of losing confidentiality, integrity or availability.

Notification
============

Whereas a securty breach results in infringement of personal data protection, notification to supervisory authority and/or to affected individuals might be required.

Notification to Supervisory Authority
-------------------------------------

Notification to supervisory authority IS NOT REQUIRED if the breach is unlikely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons

Notification to Individuals
---------------------------

Notification to individuals IS REQUIRED if the breach is likely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

Notification is NOT required if either of the following are true:

1. the controller has implemented appropriate technical and organizational protection measures, and those measures were applied to the personal data affected by the personal data breach, in particular those that render the personal data unintelligible to any person who is not authorized to access it, such as encryption; or
2. the controller has taken subsequent measures which ensure that the high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects is no longer likely to materialize.

Assessing Risks to Rights and Freedoms of Individuals
-----------------------------------------------------

1. As per GDPR Recital 85, a personal data breach may, if not addressed in an appropriate and timely manner, result in physical, material or non-material damage to natural persons such as loss of control over their personal data or limitation of their rights, discrimination, identity theft or fraud, financial loss, unauthorised reversal of pseudonymisation, damage to reputation, loss of confidentiality of personal data protected by professional secrecy or any other significant economic or social disadvantage to the natural person concerned.

The key trigger requiring communication of a breach to data subjects is where it is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. This risk exists when the breach may lead to physical, material or non-material damage for the individuals  whose data have been breached. Examples of such damage are discrimination, identity theft or fraud, financial loss and damage to reputation.

When the breach involves personal data that reveals racial or ethnic origin, political opinion, religion or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, or includes genetic data, data concerning health or data concerning sex life, or criminal convictions and offences or related security measures, such damage should be considered likely to occur

2. Two factors must be taken into account when performing risk assessment of the consequences of the breach:

* possible consequences of the breach
* likelyhood of that the consequences would be serious

When assesing the risk, from the point of view of the notification, only two value scale is considered:

| **Risk Value** | **Definition** | **Notification to DPA, individuals** | **Notification to Customer**  **(where affected)** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| LOW | In this level risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, while present, is sufficently low and would not present consequences other than inconvenience or minor annoyance | No | Yes |
| HIGH | In this level risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons is such that it might result in economic or social disadvantage, major annoyance or stress or adverse effects to person's health | Yes | Yes |

Notification to customer would be always commenced, at a discretion of the CIO as per Security Incident Management Plan.

Guideline on Factors to analyze is below:

| **Factor** | **What to Consider?** | **Example** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Type of breach | Affected security property of the information or IT system - either of:   * confidentiality * integrity * availability   might impact severity of the breach from a point of view of an individual | Losing confidentiality of data such as name, surname, address, PESEL etc. might be less harmful for individual than losing integrity of those data (misspelling, type errors) where wrong information might result in penalties due to taxes not payed. |
| Data (mis)use context | Breach might have different consequences for an individual depending on the context where the data might be applied | Mis-sending information of the salary of certain individual to an external travel company is less impactful to a person than sending same inormation to a colleague at work |
| Data sensitivity | Breach regarding data that is considered sensitive by GDPR shall be treated as having high impact for an individual   * racial or ethnic origin * political opinion * religion or beliefs * trade union membership * health data * sex life * criminal record   unless the data is already considered public or somehow available prior to breach. |  |
| Data volume | In some cases individual pieces of data might not be very impactful for a person, but when collated they might pose much more serious harm | Disclosure of each of name, surname, PESEL, id card number are considered mildly harmful, but when combined they might be used to identity theft or bank fraud which might be catastrophic to an individual |
| Ease of identification | Information might either:   * allow direct and easy identification of an individual * allow identification of an individual where certain context must be applied (e.g. only at work, as opposite to privately) * require extensive matching of data with some other information * require decryption, de-pseudonymisation etc. | Leaking name, surname and home addres is not very harmful by itself, but combining it with e.g. StreetView pictures allow reasoning of person's wealth by burglars  Huge computing power is needed to break modern encryption of the data |
| Intrinsic vulnerability of individuals | Some types of individuals would be considered more vulnerable by default | Children are typically considered vulnerable |
| Consequence of a breach to individual | Consider possible consequences such as:   * physical harm or injury * psychological distress * humilation * damage to reputation * damage to relations with others e.g. family, co-workers etc. * identity theft * fraud |  |
| Number of affected individuals | Generally the more individuals impacted, more serious the breach is. This is however subjective, as even considering a breach of single individual's data, the consequences might be disastrous to her/him. | Leaking thousands of emails has far less consequences for affected individuals than disclosure of single person's passport scan |

Documenting the Risk
--------------------

There must be a concise justification as to why the risk level value was assigned. The documentation must be provided in the Jira ticket where the breach is working on, or be linked there. Responsibility for providing the justification is on Data Protection Officer.

Notification Format and Contents
================================

Supervisory Authority Notification
----------------------------------

### Timeline

Notification would have to be performed without undue delay in the 72 hours since breach discovery.

### Notification Format

The notification to the supervisory authority shall include:

* the nature of the personal data breach, including where possible, the categories and approximate number of data subjects concerned and the categories and approximate number of personal data records concerned;
* the name and contact details of the data protection officer or other contact point where more information can be obtained;
* the likely consequences of the personal data breach; and
* the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the controller to address the personal data breach, including, where appropriate, measures to mitigate its possible adverse effects.

### UODO Contact Options

1. Dedicated form:   
   <https://www.biznes.gov.pl/pl/opisy-procedur/-/proc/889>
2. Digital log at ePUAP: UODO/SkrytkaESP
3. Generic communication form at [biznes.gov.pl](http://biznes.gov.pl),
4. Sending a letter with paper form

   Urząd Ochrony Danych Osobowych  
   ul. Stawki 2   
   00-193 Warszawa  
   tel. 22 531-03-00

Paper form formats available at <https://uodo.gov.pl/pl/134/233>

Data subject notification
-------------------------

### Timeline

Notification shall be performed without undue delay.

### Contents

The notice must be in clear plain language and contain at least the following:

* The nature of the data breach;
* The name and contact details of the data protection officer or other contact point where more information can be obtained;
* The likely consequences of the personal data breach; and
* The measures taken or proposed to be taken by the controller to address the personal data breach, including, where appropriate, measures to mitigate its possible adverse effects.

### Contact Options

1. If possible, direct communication methods are preferrable, especially email or instant messaging where log of the communication can be retained in order to document actions taken. In case it is not possible,
2. In case direct data subject notification would involve disproportionate effort, a public communication or similar measure whereby the data subjects are informed in an equally effective manner.

Customer Notification
---------------------

Customer might have agreed special rules of notification. Prior to commencing any notification, overall plan shall be created and consulted with relevant parties: the CIO, the DPO, securty incident response team (CSIRT),  support team of the customer, contract staff able to collect details of notifiction rules for specific customer.

Please refer to Customer assignments to resolve responsible personnel.

Reference
=========

<https://uodo.gov.pl/pl/p/poradniki>

<https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/items/612052>

