# Procedure - HowTo propagate information about major issue found in product

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170102266
**Page ID:** 170102266
**Version:** 12

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed) |
| **Author** | @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed)  @Tomasz Sławek |
| **Approvals** | @Wojciech Przybylski  @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed) |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** |  |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15078b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** |  |

We used to the situation when a customer or project reports a bug in our product, but the opposite situation is also possible and happens quite often. By the opposite situation, we mean that a developer or tester or PO or any other employee finds a bug and we would like to proactively react and protect our customers and/or ongoing projects. This is an element of proactive problem management.

Depending on the possible impact we might react in the following way:

1. Implement the fix according to the agreed [SLA](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/SUP/External+SLA+parameters)/[OLA](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/S4A/Company+Bug+Fix+OLA)
2. Additionally, if needed, mark the given product version as corrupted this will trigger actions on projects and support
3. Additionally, if required, start an Emergency Patching procedure

Emergency Patching procedure
============================

In some cases when the issue might have an impact on safety or serious business consequences, S4A triggers an Emergency Patching procedure in order to eliminate or mitigate the problem.

1. Anybody can report an issue and flag it as one that requires emergency patching. Report the issue in JIRA, set the priority according to [5.2 Global Ticket Priority Definitions.](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=QA&title=5.2%20Global%20Ticket%20Priority%20Definitions) The priority can be changed basing on project knowledge (but it requires comment in Jira issue with a short explanation). Make sure you fill the affected version according to you your best knowledge (see below for the guideline). Comment why this one requires emergency patching in your opinion.
2. Setup an online discussion space (e.g. a slack chat or a conference call) with TL, PDM, and PO and discuss the issue there. In the end, it is a **PO's decision** if the issue is significant enough to be fixed in hotfix or maintenance release  (emergency procedure) or can wait and be processed according to the normal procedure (major upgrade). In case it is not possible to contact PO, the following  hierarchy shall be used (PO if not possible PDM if not possible TL if not possible ten You)
3. In the case, when an emergency patching procedure has been triggered:

   1. The product shall create an upgrade ticket
   2. Please invite Support and Projects to the chat in order to discuss with the customer (if applicable) if and how to deliver a fix (hot patch or maintenance release or maybe major release) - and provides this information to a given product. Such info will be stored in tickets triggered by an upgrade ticket created in point a
4. So in the end it is the Customer who makes the final decision regarding emergency patching (if, when, and how). It is our job to deliver him the most accurate information so he can make the right decision.

Q&A

Q: Shall we automatically start the Emergency Patching procedure for all blockers and critical?

A: Short answer is NO. It should be discussed first and decided on the proper level, but it is highly probable that blocker or critical might require emergency patching.

Q: In case of emergency patching is required, shall we prepare a fix for all affected versions?

A: NO. It has to be discussed and decided by a Customer or project on IF, WHEN, and HOW to deliver a fix. Some customers might not be using problematic functionality and downtime needed for a deployment might not be justified or customer might decide to wait with the fix for the next maintenance release or even for the major release.

Q: Does the product needs to create an upgrade ticket for every major+ issue?

A: No. Only in cases when it was decided - see point 2.

### How to determine the affected version

By default affected version is a version in which we found a bug, but we always should check if noticed problem appears also in some previous maintenance versions. Please remember that the affected version is not necessary the version where the problem exists/is present in the code, but the version where the noticed bug can affect our customers.   
In most cases, we as a team/PO/KAM/IC/Support have knowledge of how our customers use the system, and if we as a team can decide that bug will not affect our customer. Setting correct affected versions is very important, so we should check this field during issue review, grooming, and planning meetings.

Marking a product version as corrupted
======================================

In case when we are finding some disqualifying issues in Product Release after publish :

1. PDM is changing product release status to 'Rejected' - in this transition there is an obligatory field 'Rejection Comment' - -> this field should be filled with clear information on what is not working and it is highly recommended to add Jira issue in which problem will be solved.
2. In result of step 1 all Projects release which includes Rejected product release will change the status to 'ATT\_REQ' and

   1. In Project Release will be added a comment with copied Rejection Comment from Product Release
   2. An email notification will be sent to [releases@s4a.aero](mailto:releases@s4a.aero). Sample email You can see below. Please add in Your mailbox special filtering for tag [ATT\_REQ] otherwise it will disappear in Jira emails.

Implement the fix according to the agreed [SLA](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/SUP/External+SLA+parameters)/[OLA](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/S4A/Company+Bug+Fix+OLA)
===================================================================================================================================================================================

Nothing special to be added here - make sure we will not break the SLA / OLA, if there the deadline is at risk - notify your superior as soon as possible and the support team in case of SLA.

