# Risk Management Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170100789
**Page ID:** 170100789
**Version:** 9

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Chief Information Officer |
| **Author** | @Sabina Weselak |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** |  |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14498b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (All)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

The purpose of this policy is to incorporate a consistent approach to risk management into the culture and strategic planning processes that supports decision making and resource allocation at both the operational and strategic levels.

Scope
=====

All Team Members

Terms and definitions
=====================

*Risk -* is the chance that an event, trend or course of action will have either a positive or negative effect on an institution's ability to meet its strategic or operational objectives.

*Risk Tolerance, Risk Appetite, Risk Threshold **-*** please check details Risk Appetite/Tolerance/Threshold

*Activity Risk Management -* is the process of identifying, analyzing and managing risks. It provides the methodology for integrating risk into planning and decision making processes at the operational level.

*Enterprise Risk Management -* is the process of identifying, analyzing and managing strategic risks. It provides the methodology for integrating risk into the strategic planning and resource allocation processes at the strategic level

Responsibilities:
=================

**Risk Owner:**  who has responsibility to optimize this risk for project/activity/enterprise.

**CEO:**  is responsible to ensure that all executive sponsors and risk owners integrate ERM into the development of strategic plans and operational decisions.

**Executives:** is the senior risk committee responsible to identify emerging enterprise risks, prioritize identified enterprise risks, direct or approve risk treatments, allocate sufficient resources to implement risk treatments, monitor the results of risk treatments, review and update the risk register and ensure that Risk Management is integral to strategic goal setting and decision making.

**Directors:** are responsible to manage the Risk Management Program. This involves monitoring sector best practices and standards, working with risk owners and executive sponsors to analyze both operational and enterprise risks and develop effective risk treatments regularly updating and/or renewing the risk register and coordinating risk management education and training.

**All employees:** are responsible for effectively managing risks in their area of responsibility and identifying and advising their supervisor of potential risks.

Process
=======

Risk Identification
-------------------

All team members can report risk into risk registry. Critical risks should be reported immediately.

* Identification is done in two ways:

  + Risk Statement from template: Risk Identification - Template
  + Full description of Identify section from Risk Identification - Template

Risk Analysis
-------------

### Qualitative Risk Analysis

Qualitative Risk Analysis is used to prioritize Risk.

* Definition of probability and likelihoods are defined here: Risk Analysis

### Quantitative Risk Analysis

Risk response
-------------

Risk response involves examining possible treatment options to determine the most appropriate action for managing a risk. Management actions or risk responses are required where the current controls are not managing the risk within defined tolerance levels. Response could involve improving existing controls and implementing additional controls.

1. Risk response planing please use available definitions from Risk Response

Risk monitor/control
--------------------

Risk information requires regular monitoring and review to ensure currency. The environment in which we operate is constantly changing and so therefore are our risks. If risk information is inaccurate, we may make poor decisions that could otherwise have been avoided.

Therefore Risk Owners have key risk and control review and update responsibilities to ensure continued currency of information pertaining to their particular risks. In addition, on an annual basis, the entire risk register will be reviewed, with review participation of directors and executes as necessary.

Risk Register
=============

The Risk Register contains all the risks identified and summarizes or documents the results of the assessment performed including management actions to be undertaken to further mitigate the risks to an acceptable level.

Risk Register: Enterprise Risk Registry

