# Product Development and Support Security Credentials Procedure

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106199
**Page ID:** 170106199
**Version:** 14

---

Type Of Document <Policy|Procedure|Standard|Guideline> Policy Owner <a role or concrete person> Author <@mention concrete person> Approvals <depends on approval strategy selected by Owner> <@mention concrete person1> <@mention concrete person2> <@mention .... > Effective From <"Immediately after publishing" or supply concrete date e.g. 1 Jan 2000 using Confluence calendar macro> Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines <links to documents, or description how to refer them> Review Lifecycle Review period: <specifiy exact period, up to 3y> or whenever important reasons arise <link to recurring task> Company <select the company/companies to which the document applies (usually all of them): AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k. AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V.> Version (optional), use numbering schema as per versioning of SUITE products Product versioning policy) 

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | Chief Information Officer |
| **Author** | @Michał Wacięga |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Authentication Credentials Management Policy |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-1548b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** |  |

Purpose
-------

This procedure sets out rules of handling security credentials (passwords) that are used during any lifecycle phase of software that is created at Smart4Aviation Group

Scope
-----

All personnel of Smart4Aviation Group, including:

* employees of Smart4Aviation Group organizations,
* contractors or subcontractors of contractors of the Smart4Aviation Group organizations,

who are involved in design. development, support and maintenance of software and services that are intended to form a solution that Smart4Aviation provides to its Customers as Customer Projects.

Terms and definitions
---------------------

A *Smart4Aviation Group* is understood as Smart4Aviation B.V., Smart4Aviation America, AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

An *Security incident* is understood as in Security Incident Reporting Procedure / Procedura zgłaszania incydentów związanych z bezpieczeństwem.

*Information Technology Resource* is understood as any hardware, infrastructure or software that is or can be used in processing any kind of business data in digital form. Any kind of data in digital form is also treated as information technology resources.

*User* is understood as any natural person,  e.g. employee, contractor or subcontractor of Smart4Aviation Group, or computer service who/which has access to a *Information technology resource*

*Security Credentials* is understood as any information (in pure digital form or embedded in dedicated security device) that is issued to a User and applied in order to gain access to a certain Information Technology Resource

*User Account* is understood as accounts that are associated with a specific natural person.

*Shared Account* is understood as single account that is intended to be an User Account, but that is actually used by multiple individuals (e.g. Smart CORE/UM account in production system that is used to quickly check if Smart Suite application works correctly from user point of view)

*Service Account* is understood as account used by systems or application to authenticate to other systems or application, without any associations to a real person.

*Customer* is understood as airline or any other entity that Smart4Aviation Group is bound to with contractual obligations, including the entities that already entered the contract or are in talks about entering.

*Project Manager* is understood as the person (who is employee, contractor or subcontractor of Smart4Aviation Group) in overall charge of the planning and execution of a particular project (provision of agreed goods or services) for a Customer.

*Customer Project*: provision of services by Smart4Aviation Group to a customer, with regard to a signed contract or possibly a contract offer (a demo).

Articles
--------

### Security by Design

Smart4Aviation Group expects everyone directly or indirectly involved in development and provisions of services and software to Customers, and in accordance with one's duties at Smart4Aviation Group, to architect, design, implement or maintain solutions (software artifacts, infrastructure, deployments etc.), in such way that:

a) it adheres to industry best practices regarding security,

b) it promotes security even if less secure shortcuts or workarounds can be made.

c) it is conducted with security features in mind at every software lifecycle phase (akin to "privacy by design" principle that Smart4Aviation Group follows), and

d) security or privacy features of third-party components, services or libraries that are incorporated or embedded in SmartSuite are always considered.

### Personnel Awareness

1. All Smart4Aviation Group personnel: an employee, contractor, sub-contractor or associate who is involved in provisions of Smart4Aviation Group's services to Customers is obliged to pay attention if any security credentials that are used in the course of a project she/he might come into knowledge of is handled in proper manner, and react accordingly if not.

Depending on one's judgement, there actions shall be (including but not limited to):

a) notification of a project: informing an Implementation Consultant, Project Manager or a support staff and filling in a Jira ticket in relevant project's internal queue, and

b) reporting a Security Incident if it affects security of the production or an Customer's IT system or internet-faced system, and

c) adhering to general circumstances that warrant reporting a Security Incident.

2. Smart4Aviation Group personnel who witnessed security credentials handled in improper manner shall strive to see to alleviating this issue as soon as possible.

### Deployment as Customer's Projects

1. Security Credentials to any software components (hosts, application servers, databases, integrations, products, messaging middleware, support tools etc.) that make up a service provided by at Smart4Aviation Group  to a Customer must be:

a) deployed in secure manner (e.g. are encrypted) unless not possible otherwise, and

b) only revealed to authorized personnel (both Customer's and Smart4Aviation Group 's). Publishing it in such way that they are available to all personnel (e.g. freely accessible Confluence page)  is prohibited.

2. Security features of software components (hosts, application servers, databases, integrations, products, messaging middleware, support tools etc.) that make up a service provided by at Smart4Aviation Group  to a Customer must be documented. Personnel responsible for the software deployment, maintenance and support must be made to have up-to-date knowledge of those security features.

3. For in-application work, deployment, maintenance and support staff shall have their own User accounts if possible.

5. Any accounts shall be created having least privilege level necessary to achieve desired function.

### Handling of In-house Security Credentials

1. While issuing a password to User, Smart4Aviation Group shall ensure secure channel of communicating it. Users shall never send security credentials via public communication channels like Slack. Users shall ensure that any Smart4Aviation Group's Security Credential stay within Smart4Aviation Group's infrastructure and systems.

2. All newly acquired, deployed or installed Smart4Aviation Group's Information Technology Resources shall have their default authentication credentials changed

3. Security Credentials that:

a) are a property of Customer, or

b) are provided by an external vendor as a part Smart4Aviation Group's service contract, or

c) are used by Smart4Aviation Group  in Internet context (not just locally),

shall not be stored in version control systems (source code repositories) along with code that uses them. Placeholders shall be used if example configuration is to be provided by a feature developer.

