# Procedure -  Deployment Validation Test

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170105878
**Page ID:** 170105878
**Version:** 16

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | @Michal Geratowski | OOO TL 5.01.26 |
| **Author** | @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed) |
| **Approvals** | @Dominik Foltyn  @Michal Geratowski | OOO TL 5.01.26  @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed)  @Wojciech Przybylski  @Michael Ferguson (Unlicensed) |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** |  |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15088b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** |  |

Purpose
-------

The purpose of this procedure is to standardize:

* scope of tests performed after deployment on customer environment or suite environment
* how the test execution should be documented

Scope
-----

Procedure is valid for S4A employees that are performing deployments

Terms and definitions
---------------------

Treat this section as glossary. Put all terms and definitions that appear in this document (see below examples):

*Smart4Aviation Group* - Understood as Smart4Aviation B.V., Smart4Aviation America, AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Team Member* - Smart4Aviation Group Employees, Mandate Contractors and Contractors and Subcontractor

Articles
--------

### Suite Deployment Validation Test

In the test defined in XRAY in Jira ticket below you can find a standard set of test steps that should be executed after deployment. Note that some of them might be optional in your case. There is no need to copy this test to your project, you can setup test execution in your project based on this ticket (one test, multiple test executions in multiple projects)

### SUITE-47748b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira

### **How to create test execution in your project**

#### First step is to create test execution in your Jira project

1. Create a ticket, issue type is test execution
2. Add Test ticket in Test Execution details bookmark

#### Next you can link the created test execution ticket to the release ticket

#### Now you can execute the test

1. In your created ticket click on "execute" next to the linked test
2. New view will open. Here you can go through each test step and mark it as passed or failed - just click on green or red square on the right of each step

   **If there is a step testing a product that you do not have on your env, then just mark it as passed** and move on to the next one.  
   NOTE: If you fail one test step - it will fail whole test - so be aware of this. So if you would like to check next steps - temporary do not mark the current step as failed, you can omit them for now or mark them yellow - mark it as failed at the end.
3. In case you need to mark whole test execution as passed or failed, there are two ways:

   or
4. When you are finished then you can just click on "Go back to test execution" and ticket will be closed (if you went through all steps).
5. In order to create defect connected with your test - use option "Defect" on the test step
