# Procedure: Change to Baseline Management

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106091
**Page ID:** 170106091
**Version:** 38

---

The goal of this procedure  is a control of subsequent changes for the base plan.

**Owner:**

Procedure is valid from 

**Meetings:**

| Meeting type | General rules |
| --- | --- |
| CRB  Mondays 15:00-16:00 KRK\*  Fixed time slot    Ad-hoc  Thursdays 13:00-14:00 | * mandatory, impact assesment must be prepared by CRB requestor * **CRB can be handled offline** - to set the deadline prior to the call. If all approvals are available - no need to have a CRB meeting |

**Adding topic to CRB according to the status****:**

| Status | Description |
| --- | --- |
| GreyDRAFT | CRB requestor creates CRB page and gathers all data  & provides scenarios (not mandatory) |
| Yellowimpact assesment | Impact assesment preparation - mandatory  Parties responsible to provide necessary information  PDM to highlight what is out of the scope  PDM to propose one option, not a selection of the options that Change board will have to choose from  PDM can highlight risks with clear statement |
| RedREADY 4 CRB | a) Offline verification:  - PDM sends out request for verification. Invitation must include verification end date  b) Online verification:  CRB moderator receives information from PDM that candidate for the meeting is ready.  Moderator adds draft to the agenda. |
| Greenapproved  Greyrejected | Decision has been made |

**Participants:**

In order to make a decision, some participants are required. Attendance list verified during the meeting.

| Role | Name |
| --- | --- |
| CEO |  |
| CIO |  |
| CFO |  |
| Directors |  |
| Product Owners |  |
| PDMs  (Optional) |  |
| PMs |  |
| CRB moderator |  |

**Role CRB Requestor:**

* If comes from project - PM
* If comes from sales - Maciek Migacz
* If it comes from support - Paweł Wadas/KAM?
* If comes form specific person the persons needs to own it

**CRB Moderator:**

* Responsible for both procedures
* Prepares agenda for the meetings
* Moderates weekly meetings
* Coordinates requests with importance "extreme"

**Entry criteria:**

* Created CRB Page
* Impact assesment prior to the meeting:
  + products
  + projects
  + resources
  + finance - payments
  + suite
* Proposed scenarios for the decision
* CR scheduled on the agenda/ awaiting approval

**Exit Criteria:**

* Decision

1. **Procedure change presentation:**  
   1. **DRAFT:** Change requestor creates a Confluence page (Jira)? and provides possible scenarios.
   2. **IMPACT ASSESMENT**: CRB requestor ask for impact information on:  
      1. Products (prior to the meeting/ offline decision) :
      2. Resources (prior to the meeting/ offline decision):
      3. Projects (prior to the meeting/ offline decision) - impact to be discussed during PM call :
      4. Finances  (prior to the meeting/ offline decision)
      5. Company (if needed)
   3. **READY 4 CRB:** Once all data is provided, CRB requestor informs CRB moderator. CRB moderator adds information to the CRB page and informs requested attendants
   4. Change can be approved offline or will be reviewed during CRB meeting. If there will be no agreement, dedicated meeting to be scheduled.
2. **Procedure of change approval: (or )**  

   Approval means you accept impact defined in change request and execution is feasible.

   Approval from top:

   * If change is approved by CEO then change is consider as approved.
     + CIO, CFO and directors will execute this change.
   * If change is approved by CFO and CIO then change is consider as approved by CEO.
     + Directors will execute this change.
   * If change is approved by all directors reporting to CFO or CIO then change is consider as approved by CFO or CIO.

