# Traininig Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106783
**Page ID:** 170106783
**Version:** 18

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Director Back Office |
| **Author** | @Sabina Weselak |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Sabina Weselak |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Training Procedure  Training Standard |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-9488b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
-------

Smart4Aviation Group recognises the importance of training and developing its Team Members and understands that its Team Members are key to its success

Scope
-----

All Team Members

Terms and definitions
---------------------

*Smart4Aviation Group* - Understood as Smart4Aviation B.V., Smart4Aviation America, AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Team Member* - Smart4Aviation Group Employees, Mandate Contractors and Contractors and Subcontractors

*External provider* - training and consulting companies, certification companies, online courses and trainings, conferences organizers.

*Traininig* - conferences, certificates, trainings (see Training Methods)

Articles
--------

### Objectives

Company training and development objectives must be aligned to strategic objectives and priorities.

### Type of trainings

**Mandatory training** is compulsory training that is determined essential by an organisation for the safe and efficient delivery of services. This type of training is designed to reduce organisational risks and allign all Team Members from the work standards point of view. All assigned mandatory trainings needs to be done by Team Member.

**Optional training** is facultative training. As the Company we recommed it but as a Team Member you do not have to do it - it is not mandatory for you. The purpose of optional training is to develop the subject of mandatory training, to address topics that go beyond the scope of work, knowledge or skills in a given position. Optional trainings are also those trainings which are individually requested by a Team Member but are aligned to strategic objectives and priorities (see more: Self-Development at Training Standard)

### Coverage of demand

Trainings are to cover both the Smart4Aviation Group demand for given areas of knowledge and the needs of the Team Member. Smart4Aviation Group may also require you to undertake specific training related to your current position, or as a prerequisite for performing a different position, for example if you are promoted to a higher position.

### Training methods

1. online training;
2. in-person training
3. internal training (led by another Team Member who has knowledge on the subject);
4. conferences
5. certification (also included pre-exam training, if needed)
6. books / manuals
7. studies

### Funding

Smart4Aviation Group will facilitate training and development opportunities for Team Members subject to the availability of funding.

### Payment

As a rule, trainings are paid by Smart4Aviation Group. Information on how to process such cases can be found in the procedure attached to this policy, in section C.

### Permission

Team Member is required to have the permission (accepted JIRA Training ticket) of Smart4Aviation Group prior to either signing up, or attending a training.

### Key professional and skills based learning

1. Enable the Company to fulfil its strategy and strategic objectives;
2. Pertain to any Company statutory/contractual obligations;
3. Essential in order to generate and maintain revenue;
4. Enable effective responses to and management of legislative changes;
5. Ensure IT skills meet business needs;
6. Are essential to ensure the quality of service provision;
7. Enable staff members to meet their responsibilities in completing continuous professional development required by relevant professional bodies;
8. Enable management development for those who have people management responsibilities.

### Needs identification

Development needs may be identified at several levels: those that apply to the Group as a whole, those at a departmental or team level and those which apply to a particular individual (or group of individuals).

### Knolwedge sharing

Make space for the Team Member to share the knowledge acquired during the training with other Team Members.

### Time

Time spent on training is included in the working time (no more than 1 hour daily / 5 hours weekly). The Manager should take care of the appropriate balance between the ordered tasks and training. Particular emphasis should be placed on mandatory training

