# Legal and Regulatory Compliance Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106479
**Page ID:** 170106479
**Version:** 17

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | @Sabina Weselak |
| **Author** | @Małgorzata Genzels-Stachniak ooo till 01.01.2026 |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Ivo Hop |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** |  |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14748b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (All)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

Smart4Aviation provide a wide range of services and products and operate in a highly regulated environment. In every field of our activity we take our obligations to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations by defining and monitoring policies and procedures on which we operate. We demonstrate a thorough understanding of applicable laws and regulations in force in the Netherlands, Poland and the European Union.

Smart4Aviation Group is committed to ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

Failure to understand and act within appropriate legal boundaries can result in a number of negative consequences, including customer dissatisfaction, ineffective allocation of resources, missed business opportunities, failed business ventures, negative publicity, penalties and damages, litigation, and the potential loss of customers.

Scope
=====

All Smart4Aviation Group Team Members.

Our ability to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations, as well as our own core policies. To enable compliance, Smart4Aviation Group Team members must be confident that they are working within appropriate legal boundaries, through knowledge of Smart4Aviation Group's obligations, and the provision of compliance tools and specialist support.

Smart4Aviation Group's legal and regulatory compliance obligations includes:

* Legal obligations, including:

  + legislative;
  + contractual;
  + permits, licences and other forms of authorisation;
  + common law;
  + equitable obligations; and
  + relevant industry codes and compulsory standards;
* External obligations, including:

  + regulatory policies and codes
* Smart4Aviation Group policies, procedures, standards and guidelines.

Terms and definitions
=====================

A *Smart4Aviation Group* is understood as Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V., Smart4Aviation Americas, Inc., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under the common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Team Member* – understood as a person who performs tasks on behalf of Smart4Aviation, using Smart4Aviation IT infrastructure and as if reporting to Smart4Aviation, regardless of employment or contract type, including staff that is outsourced to perform certain tasks, from other entities.

*Customer* is understood as airline or any other entity that Smart4Aviation Group is bound to with contractual obligations in order to provide services, including the entities that already entered the contract or are in talks about entering.

*Company Compliance* - simply put, company compliance means having internal policies and procedures designed to follow the law as well as to prevent and detect violations of applicable law, regulations, rules and ethical standards by Team Members and partners.

Main Principle
==============

Our headquarters is located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands and our development offices are located in Gdansk and Krakow, Poland, so our business is subject to the laws and regulations in force

* in the Netherlands,
* Poland and
* the European Union.

By providing software for many Clients, also outside the European Union, we want to be sure that all our activities are compatible with the law and regulations of our Clients.

Our Clients must provide to us the request in official form:

* clauses included in agreement with Smart4Aviation
* amendment to existing agreement

Customer is obliged to provide any additional information, news, requests related with changes related with their local/internal law or regulation which may have impact on services provided by Smart4Aviation. Communication should be done via request change request process to assigned sales or project Smart4Aviation representatives.

Applicable laws and regulations monitored by HR department (PL) @Sabina Weselak
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Law / Regulations under monitoring by HR department

Applicable laws and regulations monitored by HR department (NL)
---------------------------------------------------------------

* Law / Regulations under monitoring by HR department

Applicable laws and regulations monitored by sales department @Maciej Migacz
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Law / Regulations under monitoring as per contractual obligations

