# Disposal of electronic equipment [#hardware #utilisation] - procedure

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170108048
**Page ID:** 170108048
**Version:** 29

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | @Kajetan Powała |
| **Author** | @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed) |
| **Approvals** | @Wojciech Przybylski  @Jakub Zakrzewski  @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed)  @Paweł Kosecki |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Sanitisation of devices, equipment or removable media before re-use or disposal [hardware] [utilisation] |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14768b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Disposal procedure
==================

If there is a necessity to dispose of electronic hardware1, utilization committee will be called. Chairmen of this committee are Wojciech Przybylski (Cracow) and Dominik Foltyn (Gdansk). Apart from chairmen, the committee includes two employees chosen by them.

After disposal of electronic hardware, which was enclosed in record of fixed assets (available in accounting department), it's necessary to prepare an utilization protocol of fixed assets ([Protokol.pdf](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/download/attachments/170108048/Protokol.pdf?version=1&modificationDate=1603889347000&cacheVersion=1&api=v2)). This document, with signatures of all committee members, must be handed over to accounting department. Copy of that protocol must be kept for 5  years from disposal by the member of committee chosen by the chairmen.

In case of data storage disposal (like hard drives), hardware must be destroyed before utilization to prevent any data recovery - follow the procedure called: Sanitisation of devices, equipment or removable media before re-use or disposal [hardware] [utilisation]

In case of small equipment disposal, charged directly in costs (i.e. anything not enclosed in record of fixed assets), there is no need to prepare an utilization protocol of fixed assets. Instead of an utilization protocol of electronic hardware ([Protokol-drobny.pdf](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/download/attachments/170108048/Protokol-drobny.pdf?version=1&modificationDate=1603889347000&cacheVersion=1&api=v2)) must be prepared. This document, with signs of all committee's members, has to be kept for 5 years from disposal by the member of committee chosen by the chairmen. Scans of both protocols must be sent to Backoffice team to transfer it to our accountants.

Hardware designed for disposal must be forwarded to company, which has permission to issue a waste transfer note. A list of such companies is available here.

Waste transfer note must be attached to a copy of the utilization protocol or to the utilization note, and with those documents kept for 5 years from disposal. In case of hardware enclosed in record of fixed assests, copy of the waste transfer must be handed over to accounting department along with the utilization protiocol.

1. In case of replacement of broken server parts performed by 3rd party company - this procedure can be overwritten by the agreement with given 3rd party

