# Personnel Vetting Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170104805
**Page ID:** 170104805
**Version:** 10

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Director Back Office |
| **Author** | @Sabina Weselak |
| **Approvals** |  |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Information Classification Policy |
| **Review Lifecycle** | The policy will be updated whenever important reasons arise, but at least once a year  Next review is scheduled on:  SAS-10078b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. |
| **Version** |  |

Terms and Definitions
=====================

*Customer* is understood as airline or any other entity that Smart4Aviation Group is bound to with contractual obligations, including the entities that already entered the contract or are in talks about entering.

*Identity-proving Document* is understood as a state-issued document that is legally accepted as identity-proving in employee's country (an identity card), or a passport.

*Identity Verification* is understood as a process of proving that certain employee is really the person she/he claims to be.

*Special Categories of Personal Data* is understood as defined in GDPR Article 9. Examples of such categories are data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious beliefs, trade union membership, data concerning sexual orientation or sex life, health-related data etc,

*GDPR* is understood as Regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Data Protection Directive)

Purpose
=======

This policy describes the approach to employee vetting and verification beyond the skills that are required for given position.

Objectives
==========

1. Provide guidance for Smart4Aviation group personnel about how and when to perform various forms of personnel vetting
2. Provide guidance to Customer contract authors who design relevant clauses regarding personnel security
3. Provide clear statement to Customers on permissible forms of the personnel vetting along with technical details on how it is executable

Scope
=====

* Any Backoffice/HR Dept. personnel responsible for any forms of employement candidate management and employment documenting as required by law.
* Any Sales/Marketing Dept. personnel responsible for Customer contract design
* Any personnel involved in Customer projects, including development, deployment, support and maintenance of the software products and services for the Customer.

Personnel Identify Verification
===============================

1. Upon onboarding, a new employee's Identity Verification shall be performed prior to issuing her/him any permissions to work with information that is above Disclosable level of sensitivity as defined by Information Classification Policy.
2. Any *Identity Verification* shall be performed in compliance with laws currently in force in the employee's country, including but not limited to privacy laws (GDPR) and labour law (Kodeks Pracy).
3. The verification is performed by sighting relevant *Identity-proving document* by designated S4A Backoffice/HR personnel as stated in *Table 1*. The list of persons eligible for performing Identity-proving documents is managed, kept up to date and published by Director Backoffice.
4. The sighting of the *Identity-proving Document* is done in one of below forms:

   1. in person, if onboarding takes place in one of the offices. For those who could travel to the office, and as a strongly recommended option, verify I*dentity-proving Document* sighting in person.
   2. online using any communication platform that allows connection with the activated hi-fidelity camera (for example Webex, Slack, Google Meet, Skype, etc). In this case, the candidate for an employee on the day of onboarding must show his / her *Identity-proving Document* to the camera

Subject document is required to be original in the form as issued by the employee's state, and shall be carried by its owner in person.

5. Any form of persisting or copying of the *Identity-proving Document* (e.g. creating a scan, photocopy etc.) by Smart4Aviation is prohibited.

6. Designated S4A Backoffice/HR personnel must indicate in the JIRA Employee project, in the candidate's ticket, that the *Identity-proving Document* t has been correctly verified.

|  | **Person** | **Position** | **Office Location** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1. | Sabina Weselak | Director Back Office | KRK |
| 2. | Małgorzata Genzels-Stachniak | Compensation & Benefit Manager | KRK |
| 3. | Katarzyna Gadomska | HR Specialist | GDN |
| 4. | Agnieszka Sienkieiwcz | Personnel Administration Specialist | KRK |
|  |  |  |  |

*Table 1. Smart4Aviation personnel eligible for performing identity verification*

Customer-requested periodic/on demand personnel identity verification
=====================================================================

1. Smart4Aviation Customers are allowed to request *Identity Verification* of personnel that is involved in provision of Smart4Aviation services to the Customer, such as support and maintenance of the software. They may also require more than one *Identity-proving Document,* and Smart4Aviation is obliged to carry out such verification.
2. Such *Identity Verification* shall be performed solely by Smart4Aviation on terms as defined in Personnel Identity Verification Article of this policy.
3. Creation of any copies of Indentity-proving documents and transferring them to a *Customer* shall be prohibited.

Personnel criminal background checks
====================================

1. Personnel Criminal record checks shall be prohibited as they are banned by Polish laws currently in force.
2. Smart4Aviation shall not request criminal record checks from its employees or employee candidates.
3. Smart4Aviation shall not accept criminal record checks if voluntarily offered by an employee or employee candidate.

Employment reference checks
===========================

1. Smart4Aviation shall not require employment reference from a candidate.
2. Smart4Aviation shall accept candidate's past employment reference when voluntarily offered by the candidate. Smart4Aviation shall require explicit and freely given statement of consent of the candidate in such case. The consent is also required to be obtained shall Smart4Aviation use the reference and associated personal data to transfer it to candidate's past employer in order to perform the actual checking.

Candidate social media background screening
===========================================

1. Smart4Aviation shall not perform social media (Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, YoyTube etc.) screening due to possibility of accidental obtaining of the special categories of personal data that are illegal for employers to process.
2. Smart4Aviation is allowed to perform screening of technical-oriented media where risk of accidentially obtaining special categories of personal data is low (e.g. GitHub, GitLab, BitBucket or other source code repositories, StackOverflow, Udemy courses when authored by the candidate etc.)

Appendix A
==========

1. Law excerpt on identity checks

*Kodeks Pracy, Art 221*

*§ 3. Pracodawca żąda od pracownika podania dodatkowo danych osobowych*  
*obejmujących:*  
*...*  
*2) numer PESEL, a w przypadku jego braku – rodzaj i numer dokumentu*  
*potwierdzającego tożsamość;*  
*...*  
*§ 5. Udostępnienie pracodawcy danych osobowych następuje w formie*  
*oświadczenia osoby, której dane dotyczą. Pracodawca może żądać udokumentowania danych osobowych osób, o których mowa w § 1 i 3, w zakresie niezbędnym do ich potwierdzenia*

<https://isap.sejm.gov.pl/isap.nsf/download.xsp/WDU19740240141/U/D19740141Lj.pdf>

2. Law excerpt on criminal record checks (prohibit) and other data (permit under condition)

*Kodeks Pracy Art. 221a*  
*§ 1. Zgoda osoby ubiegającej się o zatrudnienie lub pracownika może stanowić podstawę przetwarzania przez pracodawcę innych danych osobowych niż wymienione w art. 221 § 1 i 3, z wyjątkiem danych osobowych, o których mowa w art. 10 rozporządzenia Parlamentu Europejskiego i Rady (UE) 2016/679 z dnia 27 kwietnia 2016 r. w sprawie ochrony osób fizycznych w związku z przetwarzaniem danych osobowych i w sprawie swobodnego przepływu takich danych oraz uchylenia dyrektywy 95/46/WE (ogólne rozporządzenie o ochronie danych) (Dz. Urz. UE L 119z 04.05.2016, str. 1, z późn. zm.2), zwanego dalej „rozporządzeniem 2016/679".*

<https://isap.sejm.gov.pl/isap.nsf/download.xsp/WDU19740240141/U/D19740141Lj.pdf>

