# Information Security Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170104722
**Page ID:** 170104722
**Version:** 58

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Chief Information Officer |
| **Author** | @Michał Wacięga |
| **Approvals** | 15 e3fe74e8-36c4-401d-9d06-a6cefc46e204 complete  @Andrzej Kowal   16 8373bc4d-faee-4086-ae07-659397dd73ad complete  @Wojciech Przybylski |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidances** | All IT system Policies. Specifically, privacy-related policies including Personal Data Protection Policy (Polityka Bezpieczeństwa Danych Osobowych) |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: `1y` or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-6718b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | All Smart4Aviation Group including:  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V.> |
| **Version** | 2.0.0  *(optional) use numbering schema as per versioning of SUITE products* Product versioning policy*)* |

Terms and Definitions
=====================

*Customer* is understood as airline or any other entity that Smart4Aviation Group is bound to with contractual obligations, including the entities that already entered the contract or are in talks about entering.

*GDPR* is understood as Regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Data Protection Directive).

*Smart4Aviation Group* is understood as Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V., Smart4Aviation Americas, Inc., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Personal data* is understood as any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person; an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person (as defined in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation)).

*User* is understood as any natural person,  e.g. employee, contractor or subcontractor of Smart4Aviation Group, or computer service who/which has access to *IT Asset*.

*Authentication* is understood as confirming identity of *User*'s requesting access to a certain Information Technology Resource, i.e. verification if a given User is indeed who she/he/it claims to be.

*Authorization*is understood as  is the process of giving the User permission to access a specific Information Technology Resource (data or function). This term is often used interchangeably with access control or client privilege. Please note that User's identity must be verified first (see: authentication).

*IT Asset* is understood as any hardware, infrastructure or software that is or can be used in processing any kind of business data in digital form. Any kind of data in digital form is also treated as information technology resources.

*Management* is understood as any person that has subordinates and is empowered to do resource allocation (staff work time, monetary budget etc.). Example positions are Product Development Manager, Support Manager, IT Admin Manager, Project Manager etc.

*Nonconformity* is understood as a deviation from security requirements, whether formal or as per established best-practices, which might lead to a vulnerability

Purpose
=======

This policy acts as an umbrella document for all other security policies and standards across Smart4Aviation Group. It defines the responsibility to:

* protect and maintain security attributes of information, which are confidentiality, integrity and availability; and
* manage security-related risks; and
* ensure a secure IT infrastructure; and
* identify and respond to events that involve infringement of information security attributes regarding IT assets including data and systems, especially customer data; and
* comply with privacy and personal data processing requirements; and
* create secure software and services that are provided by Smart4Aviation to its customers; and
* increase awareness promote security-aware organizational culture.

Objectives
==========

This policy is intended to define mandatory minimal security requirements for Smart4Aviation Group entities' information technology assets. Note that due to specific business needs or specific legal or regulatory requirements, those minima might be exceeded.

Scope
=====

* All Smart4Aviation personnel is responsible for following this policy.
* All information systems that are managed by Smart4Aviation shall be designed, developed, operated, maintained and decommissioned with respect to this policy.

Security Objectives
===================

1. Smart4Aviation Group declares following goals to be achieved by its overall information security management system:

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Ensure system availability and service continuity** | To ensure the operational robustness of all customer-facing services by effectively managing security risks, maintaining uptime in line with contractual SLAs, and ensuring business continuity capabilities meet defined recovery objectives. |
| **Enhance product security and compliance** | To secure the entire technology lifecycle, from development to operations, by aligning with industry best practices and all compliance obligations, with the goal of minimizing high and critical severity exploitable vulnerabilities in production. |
| **Safeguard customer, corporate, and employee data from unauthorized disclosure or modification** | To prevent any unauthorized disclosure or modification of confidential customer, corporate, and employee data entrusted to the company. |
| **Foster proactive security culture** | To enhance the security awareness and competency of all employees and contractors in order to minimize the risk of human error in both daily corporate operations and within the SDLC. |
| **Ensure Efficient and Agile Security Operations** | To make sure that security processes and tools are integrated into business operations in a way that supports, rather than hinders, IT and development agility and cost-effectiveness. |

2. Performance of the information security management system shall be monitored, reviewed and evaluated at planned intervals.

**Continuous Improvement Commitment**
=====================================

1. Smart4Aviation Group is committed to the continuous improvement of the Information Security Management System (ISMS).
2. Smart4Aviation Group will regularly review the effectiveness of our ISMS and security controls, incorporate lessons learned from security incidents and audit findings, and update this policy in response to changes in our business context, threat landscape, and regulatory requirements.

Security Responsibility
=======================

1. Smart4Aviation Group assigns security-related responsibilities to individuals and groups.
2. In concert with other documents that state responsibility of individuals, Smart4Aviation recognizes security-related responsibilities as stated in the Schedule 1. Security Responsibilities. These responsibilities arise from established best practices in security hygiene and the routine activities associated with specific job roles.

Separation of Duties
====================

1. To reduce a risk of accidental of deliberate system misuse, separation of duties shall be implemented where appropriate.
2. Whenever implementing of separation of duties is not technically feasible or unjustifiable, additional compensatory security controls shall be implemented, such as monitoring of the activities, logging/auditing, supervision etc.

Information Risk Management
===========================

1. Smart4Aviation Group shall identify and rank risks associated with IT assets and information processing, based on threats, their likelihood of materializing and their potential harm.
2. Smart4Aviation Group carries out security risk assessments for:

   1. systems or processes that support critical business functions;
   2. projects
   3. implementation of significant new technologies or software architectures;
   4. in response to significant security incidents.
3. Risk assessment shall take into account:

   1. consequences of loss of confidentiality, integrity or availability of systems and information, and
   2. requirements of existing policies, standards and procedures as well as any applicable laws and regulations.

Information Classification and Handing
======================================

1. Any information that is created, acquired or used in support of Smart4Avation Group business activities shall only be used for its intended business purpose.
2. Any information shall be classified based on its confidentiality, integrity and availability.
3. Regarding its processing, any information must be handled securely in accordance with its confidentiality level.
4. Any information and information-processing asset including IT assets shall have its owner. By default, owner of the information is director of the Smart4Aviation department that creates this information.
5. In an information classification schema, Customer information and personal data shall have high confidentiality classification and thus be subject to high confidentiality controls.
6. When there is uncertainty as to how to classify given information, or it is not possible to determine the confidentiality classification of information, by default the information shall be treated as having high confidentiality classification.

IT Asset Management
===================

1. Any IT assets are assigned to designated Smart4Aviation Group department.
2. Smart4Aviation Group shall maintain inventory of its hardware and software assets, at a level of granularity deemed necessary for tracking and reporting.
3. Where technically feasible, such inventory shall be created and maintained automatically.

Personnel Security
==================

1. Upon starting work, Smart4Aviation Group employees shall receive general security awareness training. The security awareness training for every employee is then refreshed annually.
2. For those job positions requiring access to high confidentiality information, Smart4Aviation Group shall conduct workforce suitability determinations, unless prohibited from doing so by law, regulation or contract. The exact determinations must be such that Smar4Aviation Group is able to reasonably conclude that individual will likely be able to perform the required duties without undue risk to the Smart4Aviation Group or its customers.
3. There shall be a process in force to ensure that prior to employee separation, any information and IT asset is returned. The employee accounts shall be disabled and any access rights shall be removed.

Physical Security
=================

1. Any information processing and storage facilities, including corporate offices, shall have a defined security perimeter, appropriate security barriers and access controls.
2. All information technology equipment and storage devices shall be sufficiently protected from security threats and environmental hazards in order to ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability.
3. Any visitors to information processing and storage facilities shall be escorted at all time.

Access Management
=================

1. Any access to IT system shall be provided through the use of individually assigned unique identifiers (User ID). The User ID shall be accompanied by a authentication token (e.g. a password); both shall be used to authenticate the identity of the person or system requesting access.
2. The tokens that are used to authenticate a person or a process shall be treated as secret and protected appropriately.
3. Where appropriate and feasible, a stronger (multi-factor) authentication method is encouraged, or other supporting security controls deployed.
4. There is a process in place for application and approval of privileges for user requesting access to specific protected resource.
5. Access privileges shall be granted in accordance with bearer's job responsibilities and shall be limited only to those necessary to accomplish assigned task, for necessary duration (least privilege principle).
6. Whenever information or functionality of a system is segregated by user class, a role-based authorization shall be implemented to ensure that an user is able to perform only those tasks that are required from her/him.
7. User of privileged access shall use them only to perform tasks that require such privileges. Normal business transactions shall be made with non-privileged accounts.
8. There shall be sufficient security controls implemented for any remote connections to Smart4Aviation Group IT assets, including remote work (Work from Home).

Nonconformity (Noncompliance) Management
========================================

1. Smart4Aviation Group has a Security Nonconformity Policy established in order to manage cases of non-fulfillment of security requirements.
2. Any observed or suspected nonconformity shall be reported within relevant managment process to be further managed according to the nature of the nonconformity and a vulnerability it creates.

Security Incident Management
============================

1. Smart4Aviation Group has a Security Incident Management Plan established in order to effectively respond to security incidents.
2. The security incident response plan shall be applicable to both incidents regarding internal Smart4Aviation Group assets and customer-related assets.
3. Any observed or suspected information security incidents shall be reported using the relevant information security incident reporting process.

Customer Data Security
======================

1. Unless already public, Smart4Aviation Groups shall assign the highest class of confidentiality to customer information in its information classification schema.
2. Personnel who has access to customer data shall be explicitely authorized.
3. Any Smart4Aviation Group personnel access to customer production data shall be logged.

Personal Data Security
======================

1. Smart4Aviation Group shall process personal data with respect to natural person's privacy-related laws and freedoms. The processing shall be lawful, fair, transparent, with data, purpose and storage time limitation (minimization) and accuracy.
2. By default, Smart4Aviation Group in its information classification schema shall assign a high class of confidentiality to any personal data.
3. Smart4Aviation shall process personal data while attaining confidentiality, integrity and availability.

Software Systems Security
=========================

1. Any systems shall be developed, maintained and decommissioned in accordance with a secure Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) that would consider security throughout the lifecycle phases in such way that it addresses both process outcome (the software) and the process itself (security by design).
2. Any IT system shall have implemented a set of security controls relevant to the level of confidentiality of the data that is processed within and appropriate to how the system is intended to be operated.
3. Environments and test plans shall be established to validate that the system works as designed prior to deployment in production.
4. Environments that Smart4Aviation Group software operates in shall be separated by its function. The separation (development, test, acceptance, production etc.) is allowed to be either physical or logical.
5. There shall be in place formal change control policies and procedures for all Smart4Aviation Group systems. Specifically, they shall consider any change that may affect production environments or production data.
6. All software developed by Smart4Aviation Group shall be developed with secure coding practices in order to avoid incorporation of code vulnerabilities.
7. Customer information shall be used only as permitted by the customer, unless the information is public or legally obtainable from independent source
8. Software that is unreleased (denoted as in in-development, unstable or snapshot version), including tools, shall never be deployed to production.
9. Application source code shall be stored in secure internal repository.
10. Privileged access to any production systems must be restricted
11. Configuration of software components shall be hardened. Any convenience default values of security-relevant items (passwords etc.) shall be changed
12. There shall be a formalized process of deployment any software to production. Where feasible and appropriate,  in order to achieve consistency and to reduce possibility of human error, the process shall be automated.
13. Any network connections between systems shall be identified, documented and sufficiently protected by implementing relevant security controls.
14. Networks shall be designed as having security zones of different trust level. The segmentation shall allow separation of internal systems (esp. those which process information of high confidentiality classification) from systems that are accessible from internet.
15. Firewalls shall be deployed to protect from network-related threats and to control network traffic.
16. Systems developed by Smart4Aviation Group shall be regularly tested for vulnerabilities. The testing shall include:

    1. programming mistakes, bugs and omissions (source code level), both manually and automatically;
    2. vulnerabilities in the third party modules, incorporated by Smart4Aviation, including both standalone modules and modules packaged within the applications (dependencies);
    3. reviewing common attacking patterns, both automatically and manually, including 3rd party penetration testing.
17. There shall be a process in place for addressing any vulnerabilities.
18. Systems shall be analyzed for resource requirements; sufficient resources shall be assigned in order to maintain system performance and availability.
19. Systems shall use consistent and trusted time source.
20. Systems shall be monitored for any deviation from their normal operations.
21. As required and feasible. the availability of both business-critical corporate data and customer data shall be ensured.
22. System availability-related procedures such as customer service disaster recovery shall be periodically tested
23. Contingency plans shall be developed for both customer software and internal Smart4Aviation Group software. Such plans (disaster recovery plan, business continuity plan) shall be tested periodically.

Policy Compliance and Exceptions
================================

1. This policy shall take effect upon publication. Compliance is expected with all detailed Smart4Aviation Group policies and standards that specify implementation details of this policy, or which clarify its clauses.
2. Any exceptions (non-compliance, deviation, non-feasibility) is required acceptance of Chief Information Officer.

