# Mobile Device Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106965
**Page ID:** 170106965
**Version:** 17

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Director of Software Development & Support |
| **Author** | @Sabina Weselak |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Sabina Weselak  @Wojciech Przybylski |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** |  |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14648b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
-------

This policy governs rules of using mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets or laptops by Smart4Aviation staff for work

Scope
-----

1. Any person (employee, contractor or subcontractor of Smart4Aviation Group) who uses Mobile Devices to access Smart4Aviation Group data in any manner.
2. Any Mobile Device, be it Private or Corporate, that in any way uses data of Smart4Aviation Group.
3. Staff that manages (configures) Mobile Devices that are used in performing any operations on Smart4Aviation Group data.

Terms and Definitions
---------------------

A *Smart4Aviation Group* is understood as Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V., Smart4Aviation Americas, Inc., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Mobile Device* is a portable electronic device such as phone/smartphone, tablet, laptop etc.

*Corporate Mobile Device* is any Mobile Device that is owned by Smart4Aviation Group and is under its control

*Private Mobile Device* is a Mobile Device that is employed by user to perform tasks on Smart4Aviation Group data, but that is not a property of Smart4Aviation Group.

*Information sensitivity levels, Disclosable, Secret, Restricted* have their meanings as defined in Smart4Aviation Group's [Information Classification Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Information+Classification+Policy)

Articles
--------

### Objectives

Providing a security framework of how to employ Mobile Devices in Smart4Aviation Group staff's daily work.

**Rules of Handling Mobile Devices by Users**

1. Given Smart4Aviation Group's [Information Classification Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Information+Classification+Policy), users of any Mobile Device where Smart4Aviation Group data that is not of Disclosable data class that reside on the device must not leave the device unprotected or unattended at any time. The user must take all reasonable and appropriate precautions to keep control of the device and prevent unauthorized physical access, damage, loss or theft.

   2. Any damage or loss of the Mobile Device that stores Smart4Aviation Group data that is not of Disclosable data class shall be reported as Security Incident using relevant procedure. This regards both Private and Corporate Mobile Devices, the qualifier being where the data it had originate from.

   3. The use of any Corporate Mobile Device outside of Smart4Aviation Group normal business premises must be authorized by the relevant manager.

### Terms of Use

1. Given [information sensitivity classes](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Information+Classification+Policy), no Secret or Restricted data shall be stored on any Mobile Devices except as set forth in (2). Smart4Aviation Group requires users to utilize secure remote data access methods for mobile computing.
2. When secure remote data access methods are not available, any Mobile Device data shall:

   1. have minimal set of data necessary to perform the business function
   2. have the data stored only for time necessary to fulfill the business function
   3. be protected from all forms of unauthorized access, disclosure, damage, modification or deletion.
   4. have any data stored on mobile device trackable. User of a mobile device must always be aware what kind of data she/he keeps in the device.

### Corporate Mobile Device Configuration Policy

1. Any Mobile Device shall be configured to allow only minimal set of features or services needed to fulfill Smart4Aviation Group's indended business function.
2. Smart4Aviation Group ensures proper configuration of Corporate Mobile Device, with approved and properly updated security mechanisms that includes firmware, operating system or application patches or updates and presence of anti-virus, anti-malware software and firewall. User of the Corporate Mobile Device is not allowed to disable or bypass those mechanisms under any condition.
3. Any mobile device shall be configured in such way that it forces user to authenticate against it prior using. It shall force user to re-authenticate after inactivity time and have auto-locking enabled.

