# Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106001
**Page ID:** 170106001
**Version:** 14

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Chief Information Officer |
| **Author** | @Michał Wacięga |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Sabina Weselak |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Code of Conduct,  Rules of Personal Data Protection  Rules of Personal Data Protection  [Clean Desk Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Clean+Desk+Policy)  [Information Classification Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Information+Classification+Policy)  After-Hours regulations  [Social Media Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Social+Media+Security+Policy)  [Placing orders in Jira](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Jira+-+Ordering+stuff+in+Jira+needs)  detailed rules regarding remote work  [Mobile Devices Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/DRAFT+-+Mobile+Devices+Policy) |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-7508b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

To ensure that Users understand their responsibility for the appropriate use of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources.

Scope
=====

* Any person (employee, contractor or subcontractor of Smart4Aviation Group) who has access to Smart4Aviation Group data or information systems.
* All Smart4Aviation Group's equipment and information, including all information systems, hardware, software and channels of communication (including phone, teleconferencing, email, instant messaging), internet and intranet, social media etc., all internal or Customers' data including any personal data.

Objectives
==========

To provide rules of usage of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources, such as desktops, laptops, applications, systems, services (such as email, Jira etc,), internet connections in both in-work and after-work (personal) context.

Terms and Definitions
=====================

A *Smart4Aviation Group* is understood as Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V., Smart4Aviation Americas, Inc., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Customer* is understood as airline or any other entity that Smart4Aviation Group is bound to with contractual obligations, including the entities that already entered the contract or are in talks about entering.

*Personal data* is understood as any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person; an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person (as defined in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation))

*User* is understood as any natural person, employee, contractor or subcontractor of Smart4Aviation Group who has access to Smart4Aviation Group data or information systems.

*Phishing* is the fraudulent attempt to obtain sensitive information such as usernames, passwords or credit card details by disguising oneself as a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication.

*Information technology resources* is understood as any hardware, infrastructure or software that is or can be used in processing any kind of business data in digital form. Any kind of data in digital form is also treated as information technology resources.

Articles
========

### 1. General Provisions

1. Users of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources will:

a) use the resources in manner compliant with Smart4Aviation's Code of Conduct,  Rules of Personal Data Protection and other linked detailed regulations.

b) be responsible for their own actions, act responsibly and professionally, with respect to colleagues, suppliers, partners, Customers and other persons and organizations.

c) never use Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources to any illegal activity, or the activity that would be harmful to Smart4Aviation Group or Customers' reputation or that could jeopardize any Smart4Aviation Group data or equipment.

d) take in mind that Smart4Aviation Group reserves right to implement monitoring of proper usage of its resources, to the extent permitted by law.

2. As Smart4Aviation Group's employee, contractor or subcontractor, User agrees to this Policy and understands that breaching it may result in consequences being drawn.

3. Given Smart4Aviation Group's "open door practice" regarding communication with User's superiors including corporate C-level management, she/he can use whistleblowing and raising a concern if they believe that someone is misusing Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources or data.

### 2. User Identity and Passwords

1. Users of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources will:

a) protect their security credentials, including passwords and security tokens, appropriately.

b) never use any other person's credentials to log in to Smart4Aviation Group's systems.

c) log out of all computer devices storing Smart4Aviation Group's data or connected to Smart4Aviation Group's networks after work, lock screens when temporally leaving the device that is in use.

d) follow any other instructions regarding computer hygiene described in Rules of Personal Data Protection and [Clean Desk Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Clean+Desk+Policy).

### 3. Data Protection

1. Users of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources will:

a) understand their and Smart4Aviation Group's legal and contractual responsibility to protect information, including Personal Data and any Customer data.

b) ensure that any Smart4Aviation Group's information they create, use or dispose is handled according to its the sensitivity level outlined in [Information Classification Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Information+Classification+Policy)

c) not attempt to access any of Smart4Aviation Group's information or system unless there is valid business need resulting from task assigned and her/his job description or contractual obligation.

d) not provide information in response to callers or e-mails whose identity they cannot verify.

### 4. Personal use of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources

1. Personal use of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources is permitted in User's own time, under conditions stated below in clauses 4.2-4.4.

2. Smart4Aviation Group has right to require ceasation of usage of its information technology resources for User's own purposes at any time.

3. Users of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources for their own purposes will:

a) adhere to After-Hours regulations

b) use Smart4Aviation Group's information technology in own time in such manner that it won't interfere with any business activity or resource's intended use.

c) not alter configuration of devices, install additional software etc.

d) understand that Smart4Aviation Group has right to remove data that User privately stored in Smart4Aviation Group's systems at any time, or has right to require User to remove it on her/his own.

e) ensure that any private information User stores in Smart4Aviation Group's systems is legal, appropriate and compliant with Smart4Aviation Group's policies.

f) ensure that activities won't be harmful to Smart4Aviation Group or any person or entity in any way, including but not limited to activities that might be found illegal, embarrassing, copyright-violating, harassing, offensive, obscenic or otherwise abusive.

g) follow appropriate Smart4Aviation Group's policies regarding social media and communication stated in [Social Media Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Social+Media+Security+Policy).

4. Users who employ Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources for own purposes are personally accountable for what they do with the resources, both during work hours and in their free time.

### 5. Communication

1. Users of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources will:

a) comply with rules of email and instant messaging use as outlined in Rules of Personal Data Protection

b) not engage in any form of SPAM transmission

c) not try to mislead other people as to her/his identity, or create or send material that would deceive recipients about who authored or authorized it.

d) when forwarding messages, not alter original content unless authorized or required (e.g. by removing confidential or security-sensitive parts of message, with information as to reason of change provided).

e) be vigilant to phishing emails and report suspicious emails to IT Admin staff.

2. Corporate email addresses and services are to be used strictly for Smart4Aviation Group's business purposes. Any personal use of corporate email address such as purchasing or selling goods, online banking, social media etc. are prohibited.

### 6. Internet use

1. Users of Smart4Aviation Group's information technology resources will:

a) comply with rules of internet use as outlined in Rules of Personal Data Protection

b) not access sites or news groups that are obscene, indecent or advocate illegal activity

c) use social media with respect to  [Social Media Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Social+Media+Security+Policy)

d) unless authorized, not to post for Smart4Aviation Group's information to social media, blogs, forums or other types of internet applications that allow content sharing or publishing.

### 7. Devices, systems, applications

1. As to devices that are Smart4Aviation Group's property, willful installation or replacement of any hardware components by its User is prohibited unless authorized to do so.

2. For devices that are Smart4Aviation Group's property. Users who install additional software are to make sure such software is indispensable for their duty, and if such software meets requirements of Smart4Aviation Group regarding security, licensing etc. User is accountable for her/his willful installation of additional software. When in doubt, User shall consult IT Admin staff.

3. Users shall communicate their hardware and software needs through relevant Jira process as described in [Placing orders in Jira](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Jira+-+Ordering+stuff+in+Jira+needs)

4. User is fully responsible for her/his private equipment that might be used for remote work ("Work from Home"). The equipment and software used for remote work must be compliant with detailed rules regarding remote work. When in doubt, User shall consult IT Admin staff.

### 8. Physical security

1. Users must comply with relevant policies regarding handling of mobile devices, e.g. during travel, esp. [Mobile Devices Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/DRAFT+-+Mobile+Devices+Policy).

2. Upon offboarding, User is required to return any Smart4Aviation Group's property. Any electronic storage will then be subject to disposal or data wiping.

