# Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Policy

Source: https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106633  
Confluence Page ID: 170106633  
Version: 18

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Chief Information Officer |
| **Author** | @Sabina Weselak |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | [Network General Security Policy](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/S4A/DRAFT+-+Network+General+Security+Policy?src=contextnavpagetreemode)  [Wireless Network Security Policy](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/S4A/DRAFT+-+Wireless+Network+Security+Policy?src=contextnavpagetreemode)  [Security Incident Reporting Procedure / Procedura zgłaszania incydentów związanych z bezpieczeństwem](https://confluence.s4a.aero/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=37858794&src=contextnavpagetreemode)  [Information Classification Policy](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/S4A/Information+Classification+Policy)  Remote Work (WFH) Procedure  Mobile Device Policy  Social Media Policy  Network and Wireless Network Policies  Security incident handling policies  Android encryption |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14728b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all):  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

This policy governs rules of using own devices such as Personal computers (PC), which are desktop and laptop computers, and mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets by Smart4Aviation staff for work.

Scope
=====

1. Any Team Member who uses Private Device (BYOD ) to access Smart4Aviation Group systems, tools or platforms in any manner.
2. Any Private Device (BYOD), that in any way is used for work:  to read and send an email, access websites, review and edit documents, and perform many other tasks.
3. Information security personnel and others who may need to assist S4A Team Member with their devices and remote access use.

Terms and Definitions
=====================

A *Smart4Aviation Group* is understood as Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V., Smart4Aviation Americas, Inc., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under the common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Private Device*: Personal computers (PC) which are desktop and laptop computers and an electronic device such as phone/smartphone, tablet but that is not a property of Smart4Aviation Group. All non-organization-controlled devices managed by the Smart4Aviation Group Member themselves are also known as bring your own device (BYOD).

*Information sensitivity levels, Disclosable, Secret, Restricted* have their meanings as defined in Smart4Aviation Group's [Information Classification Policy](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Information+Classification+Policy)

*Work* – understood as performing tasks, activities etc work for Smart4Aviation Group, regardless of person's contract type, in the office as well as work outside the office (called as work from home, remote work, telework).

*Team Member* – understood as a person who performs tasks on behalf of Smart4Aviation, using Smart4Aviation IT infrastructure and as if reporting to Smart4Aviation, regardless of employment or contract type, including staff that is outsourced to perform certain tasks, from other entities.

*Personal Data* is understood as any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person; an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person (as defined in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation))

*Customer* is understood as airline or any other entity that Smart4Aviation Group is bound to with contractual obligations in order to provide services, including the entities that already entered the contract or are in talks about entering.

*Security incident* is understood as the exposure of confidential information, including but not limited to business information, project-related data, personal data etc. to unacceptable risk. It may include any actual or potential breach of security which may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information stored, processed and communicated in relation to Smart4Aviation Group business, regardless of the information medium.

Objectives
==========

Implementing the following recommendations should help Smart4Aviaton Team Members improve the security of their BYOD Devices while Work.

Articles
========

General Private Device usage permit statement
---------------------------------------------

1. Smart4Aviation Group intends to assign and provide Team Members with company-owned computer devices. Therefore **by default BYOD device usage is prohibited if company-owned device of the same class and capable of serving the same purpose (same result is achievable) was assigned and is readily available for use**. This specifically regards laptops or workstation computers
2. In conjunction of the above, Smart4Aviation Grpup does **explicitely allow usage of Private Device of the Smartphone/Wearable/Tablet class as long as a device of such class was not individially assigned to given Team Member.** Smart4Aviation does not plan assigning company-owned devices of those classes to all Team Member.
3. Where the BYOD device usage is permitted, Smart4Aviation Group realizes that:

   1. in order to support confidentiality, integrity and availability of Smart4Aviation networks, systems and information, there shall be sufficient security controls implemented on both Private Devices and Smart4Aviation side, and
   2. any security controls that are developed to support BYOD shall are implemented with assumption such as that networks between the Private Device and Smart4Aviation Group infrastructure cannot be trusted, and
   3. it shall be assumed that Private Devices will eventually be a used by malicious parties as a means of accessing the corporate network, or compromise confidential data, and
   4. it shall be assumed that Private Device will eventually fall victim to malware,

   and sets its policies, procedures, standards and security controls accordingly.
4. Smart4Aviation Group balances between the benefits of providing remote access to its network, systems and information to its Team Members using their Private Devices, and the potential security threats to those resources.
5. For the avoidance of doubt, due to Private Devices exposing security risks, Smart4Aviation Group **denies however using the Private Device when suitable alternative device that is controlled by Smart4Aviation Group is readily available**.

Recognized Private Device types and their usage patterns
--------------------------------------------------------

1. Private Devices that Team Members might use for Work can be:

   1. Personal Computers (PCs) – desktop or laptop computers that run desktop/laptop-grade operating system such as MS Windows, Apple macOS or Linux.  
      Private Device PCs can be used for any array of work types that corporate workstations would be applied to, including Customer’s software application development, support and maintenance.
   2. Mobile Devices – small mobile computers such as phones, smartphones or tablets which employ mobile-grade operating system sych as Google Android or Apple iOS.  
      Mobile Devices are primarily used for communication (email, voice, text and instant messaging), and accessing corporate web resources. They might store contact data (i.e. personal information) of Team Members or Customers’. In rare cases they might be used as test devices in Customer application development and testing, and for general software support and maintenance.
2. For the sake of this Policy, laptops, although certainly portable, count as PCs. Enterprise-grade large tablets (MS Surface, iPad Pro etc.) shall also fall into PC category.

Device ownership types eligible for BYOD program
------------------------------------------------

Smart4Aviation Group sets following BYOD eligibility origin rules:

| **Device Origin** | **Description** | **BYOD Eligibility Information** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Smart4Aviation owned  (this category is listed for the sake of completeness) | Devices that Smart4Aviation has full control over, i.e. are acquired, configured and managed by Smart4Aviation. | N/A |
| Private Devices | Devices  that are controlled by their owners, i.e. Team Members. They have full control over them and are fully responsible for keeping them secure. | BYOD ELIGIBLE, under conditions stated in this Policy |
| External | Devices that are controlled by Smart4Aviation’s contractors, contractors’ subcontractors i.e. a third party entities that are directly providing services to Smart4Aviation using its IT resources. The organization that is responsible for the devices’ security is this third party. | BYOD ELIGIBLE, under conditions stated in this Policy |
| Other | Devices that are controlled by parties that have neither direct nor indirect contractual obligations to Smart4Aviation. This includes either public devices (like kiosk computers in hotels) or devices owned by Team Members’ family, friends, acquaintances etc. | BYOD PROHIBITED |

Conditions for BYOD laptop/desktop computers
--------------------------------------------

Using BYOD laptop/desktop is **only** allowed in either of the cases below:

* a Team Member was not assigned company-owned device due to whatever reasons e.g. contractual arrangements as per "External" device origin above;
* assigned device is not operational e.g. broken (eligible for the time it stays so);
* assigned device is not sufficiently suitable for given task (e.g. when specific OS is required), for the time until the task is completed;
* permission was obtained via exception process https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170107067/Policy+Standards+and+Procedures+Exceptions+Procedure.

Smart4Aviation Group network and systems connectivity policy
------------------------------------------------------------

1. BYOD devices must not directly connect to Smart4Aviation internal networks. It shall use remote connection model instead.
2. Following strategies of accessing Smart4Aviation networks, systems or applications are allowed:

   1. Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), which use cryptography in order to protect confidentiality and integrity of data in transit, and that employ authentication of the user.
   2. SSL certificates that, when installed on a device, can allow accessing specific Smart4Aviation web applications without need to use VPN
   3. In special cases, direct application access from a web browser in public network, e.g. email web client
   4. Remote desktop. The access shall be implemented as indirect, that is via some trusted intermediate system (i.e. VPN with sufficient authentication).
3. User that remotely accesses Smart4Aviation infrastructure shall be authenticated using password or digital certificate. Two-factor authentication is strongly preferred (either by hardware or software authentication tokens), with remote access session timeout in place.

General rules of using BYOD devices by Smart4Aviation Group Team Members
------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Smart4Aviation Group Team Member must ensure that all the devices on their wired and wireless home networks are properly secured, as well as the home networks themselves.
2. A Private Device used for corporate purposes must have no worse security (like 2FA, antivirus, etc.) than those used in the Smart4Aviation Group. If Smart4Aviation Group Team Member doesn't have installed antivirus, they must immediately report it to the IT department to install the appropriate anti-virus software. Smart4Aviation Group can provide such software to those who work on their own equipment.
3. Given [information sensitivity classes](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Information+Classification+Policy), no Secret or Restricted data must be stored on any BYOD Device.  Transferring enterprise-related data to an unsecured location, such as a cloud-based app is also prohibited.
4. The Smart4Aviation Team Member is solely responsible for the cost of maintenance of his BYOD. An exception is the possibility for Team Members to request reimbursement of roaming or internet packet costs used for business purposes during a delegation.

Law, regulatory and corporate compliance
----------------------------------------

1. Team Member is required to use Private Device for Work in such way that is compliant with laws in force. In particular, it means compliance with any privacy or personal data protection laws.
2. Team Member is required to use Private Device for Work in such way that is compliant with any  security-related corporate policy, including but not limited to:

* confidentiality clauses and policies,
* IT and internet acceptable use policies
* corporate Code of Conduct,
* Remote Work (WFH) Procedure
* Mobile Device Policy
* Social Media Policy
* Network and Wireless Network Policies
* any Security incident handling policies (regarding corporate or project incidents)
* privacy and personal data handling policies

3. Team Member notifies Smart4Aviation Group when she/he is to bring BYOD-enabled device outside of European Union, or any country that European Union is a sovereign state of, or Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, United States of America, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Israel, Japan, South Korea.

BYOD-related Security Incident handling policy
----------------------------------------------

1. Any damage or loss of the BYOD that stores Smart4Aviation Group data that is not of Disclosable data class shall be reported as Security Incident using relevant procedure.
2. Team Member that employs BYOD shall notify and seek assistance of Smart4Aviation Group immediately after she/he suspects of detects any Security Incident regarding the network or the Private Device used for Work. The notification shall be performed using the same means and procedures as with Security Incidents in office workstation or any other Smart4Aviation Group’s network, system or device.
3. In case of Security Incident (a breach), Team Member shall cooperate and provide assistance to Smart4Aviation when requested, including but not limited to:

* + providing the forensic data related to a breach, e.g. logs or other evidence that is contained in Team Member’s  computer, network device or any other relevant store, and
  + performing disk/storage wiping if Smart4Aviation information might be contained in Private Device, including remote wiping if technically possible when the Device was known to be lost or stolen, and
  + installation of specific forensic software that would help Smart4Aviation collect the evidence.

3. Smart4Aviation Group shall respect Team Member privacy when investigating Team Member-provided forensic data, esp. when the data that is irrelevant to Work, and treat the data as confidential.

Enforceable security measures
-----------------------------

1. Smart4Aviation reserves right to require Team Member to install additional security-related or forensic software on. Cost of such software, if applicable, shall be on Smart4Aviation Group.
2. Smart4Aviation shall never require installation of tracking software (e.g. that use geolocation, camera, keystroke or mouse movement analysis).

Security Requirements for BYOD devices
--------------------------------------

1. In general, Smart4Aviation Team Member must install and use only known and trusted software on their BYOD.
2. A Team Member must take all reasonable and appropriate precautions to keep control of the device and  prevent unauthorized physical access, damage, loss or theft.
3. Team Member shall restrict who can use the PC by having a separate standard user account for each person, assigning a password to each user account, using the standard user accounts for daily use, and protecting user sessions from unauthorized physical access;
4. A Team Member must:

   1. **set a unique personal identification number (PIN) or password**or other authentication mechanisms (such as biometrics (e.g., the owner’s thumbprint)
   2. protect accounts with strong passwords
   3. enable and configure content filtering software
5. Applications on BYOD shall be configured to support security. Many applications on mobile devices, such as web browsers, are often configured by default to favor functionality over security. Accordingly, user of BYOD should consider disabling unneeded application features and configuring applications to stop or block activity that is likely to be malicious

   1. download and run apps only from authorized apps stores;
   2. do not jailbreak or root the device;
   3. do not connect the device to an unknown charging station;
6. There must be installed: a combination of security software, such as antivirus software, personal firewalls, spam and web content filtering, and popup blocking, to stop most attacks, particularly malware;
7. Team Member must ensure that Private Device is configured in such way that updates are regularly applied to the operating system and primary applications, such as web browsers, email clients, instant messaging clients, and security software;
8. There must be disabled unneeded networking features on the Private Device PC and configuring wireless networking securely;
9. Whenever possible, primary applications must be configured to filter content and stop other activity that is likely to be malicious;
10. Team Member must maintain the PC’s security on an ongoing basis, such as changing passwords regularly and checking the status of security software periodically.
11. Private Device must be configured for remote access based on the Smart4Aviation’s Group requirements and recommendations.

Additional security requirements for mobile devices:
----------------------------------------------------

1. Team Member must secure the device based on the security recommendations from the device’s manufacturer
2. When not used elsewhere, there must be automatically locking a device after an idle period;
3. There must be networking capabilities, such as Bluetooth and Near Field Communication (NFC) disabled, except for when they are needed;
4. Private Devices must be kept updated. Most mobile devices can be updated or patched to eliminate known security flaws.
5. Smart4Aviation Group has a zero-tolerance policy for texting or emailing while driving and only hands-free talking while driving is permitted.
6. As not all Android devices are encrypted by default, before you start using it in context of the Policy please make sure it is encrypted. If not please follow steps available on Confluence page <https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/S4A/Android+encryption>.

Security standard reference (for future use):
---------------------------------------------

1. [NIST SP 800-46 Rev. 2 Guide to Enterprise Telework, Remote Access, and Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Security](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-46/rev-2/final)
2. SANS [BYOD Security Implementation for Small Organizations](https://www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/mobile/byod-security-implementation-small-organizations-38230)


