# Policy, Standards, and Procedures Exceptions Procedure

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170107067
**Page ID:** 170107067
**Version:** 8

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | @Andrzej Kowal |
| **Author** | @Sabina Weselak |
| **Approvals** | @Wojciech Przybylski  @Michael Ferguson (Unlicensed)  @Ivo Hop  @Maciej Migacz  @Arkadiusz Janik |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | <https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170101332/Internal+controls?search_id=095f4f19-e64f-4703-856e-398ade33413a> |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14588b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** |  |

Purpose
-------

In order to guide S4A team members in achieving these company objectives, the S4A has established standards, and procedures, and policies that all S4A team members are required to follow. However, situations or scenarios will arise that cannot be effectively addressed within the constraints S4A policies and standards.  There will be times when business processes can and should take precedence over these policies.

S4A also recognizes that there may be urgent business needs that require deviations from these policies, standards, and procedures.  Therefore, S4A has developed an exceptions process that team members may utilize to justify such deviations.

Scope
-----

This procedure applies to all units and individuals requesting an exemption to S4A  policies and standards.

**Exception process**

* Any deviation from policies and standards must be reviewed by IT Policy and Compliance team.
* The exception review process must involve qualified professionals.
* The exception review process must log all findings and results in a repository that is accessible to all S4A staff involved in the assessment of the exception request.
* Approved exceptions must be periodically reviewed by IT Policy and Compliance and the individuals requesting the exception.

**Exception Criteria**

* Exception requests must be evaluated in the context of potential risk to S4A company as a whole.
* Exception request evaluations must take into account what value the exception will bring to S4A requesting the exception.
* Exception requests that create significant risks without compensating controls will not be approved.
* Exception requests must be consistently evaluated in accordance with Risk Management Policy.

Terms and Definitions
---------------------

*Smart4Aviation Group* - Understood as Smart4Aviation B.V., Smart4Aviation America, AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Team Member* - Smart4Aviation Group Employees, Mandate Contractors and Contractors and Subcontractors

Articles
--------

### Relevant Information

Any Team Member  who wishes to be granted an exception from a policy, standard, or procedure must provide the following information relevant to the request:

1. Requester's name
2. Specific [policy, standard, and/or procedure](https://security.virginia.edu/information-policy) for which an exception is requested.
3. List of the systems, products, projects, networks, and/or [data](https://security.virginia.edu/ajax/npop/node/1006/load/nojs) for which the exception will apply.
4. Explanation as to why this exception is being requested
5. Details regarding the mitigating factors and compensating controls that will be used to offset the risk
6. Anticipated length of non-compliance
7. Additional information as needed, including any specific conditions or requirements for approval

### Internal Control Compliance Team (ICCT)

* @Ivo Hop or @Andrzej Kowal
* @Anna Porębska
* Director of Requester
* (additional team members as per specific request)

### Steps

1. The team member should update all relevant information under in format ([Request Template](https://confluence.s4a.aero/display/S4A/Request+Template))
2. Request with relevant information is sent to Internal Control Compliance Team, supervisor via email.

   1. If required request should be CCed to other affected stakeholders.
3. IT policy and Compliance (ITPC) team will review exception
4. Once the appropriate approvals are obtained, the Internal Control Compliance Team member will reply via email with documented approval or denial of the request (along with request details) to the requestor and/or [user](https://security.virginia.edu/ajax/npop/node/986/load/nojs) for whom the exception was requested, copying the relevant managers, directors.

