# Network General Security Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170104105
**Page ID:** 170104105
**Version:** 11

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Chief Information Officer |
| **Author** | @Michał Wacięga |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Jakub Zakrzewski |
| Effective From | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Wireless Network Security Policy |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14668b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

This policy describes the approach to managing corporate networks of Smart4Aviation Group, and outlines standards and key points of interest. The Smart4Aviation Group network is intended to be available when needed while able to withstand or recover from threats, to be accessible only by legitimate user and will contain only complete and accurate information.

Objectives
==========

* To aid network to be designed and configured in order to maintain the availability, integrity and confidentiality properties.
* To offer general directives on what is acceptable and what is not in order to protect network's critical assets.
* To encourage best practices and methodologies while abstaining from enforcing concrete implementations or technologies.

Scope
=====

This policy applies to:

* all networks within Smart4Aviation Group, both wired and wireless, which are used for any corporate purpose of the Group, be it purely internal or aligned with a Customer's project,
* all personnel of Smart4Aviation Group who design, implement, build, maintain or otherwise manage corporate network infrastructure.

General provisions
==================

 The Smart4Aviation Group networks must be designed and implemented with following types of security risks in mind:

* loss of confidentiality, integrity and availability of the networks,
* providing accountability of network transactions,
* ensuring authenticity and reliability of data and users,
* ability to deny unauthorized use or prevent abuse of information and resources.

User Internet Access
====================

In addition to typical anti-malware protection software that blocks blacklisted traffic, Smart4Aviation Group, subject to the decision of Smart4Aviation CIO, reserves the right to introduce internet or service access limitations that would automatically block all websites identified by the Group as unappropriate. Such a decision would be announced to the public prior to its implementation.

Device Security
===============

Devices that are used for network segmentation, relaying network traffic, providing network security or otherwise are the part of Smart4Aviation Group network infrastructure shall:

* be accessible and manageable only by authorized and properly skilled staff (IT Admins), with any work being performed as a traceable task with individual accountability in mind,
* have restricted physical access (e.g. in locked storage or protected server rooms) to authorized staff only,
* has been sufficiently pre-configured prior to deployment into the Smart4Aviation according to the service requirements and industry best practices,
* have unnecessary services or functionalities disabled, and any vendor-provided default parameters such as passwords changed,
* be monitored in order to be able to detect events such as hardware failures or external attacks, e.g. by means of SNMP or similar,
* have their vulnerabilities monitored by the means of receiving of security notifications from vendors, services, advisories or by periodic vulnerability scanning using dedicated software,
* be hardened by having their known vulnerabilities identified and patched,
* have its firmware, operating system or other kind of internal software kept up to date.

Network Access
==============

1. Given that Smart4Aviation Group networks that operate under this Policy might interconnect external network zones that are subject to different set of security characteristics and policies (e.g. the internet or third party networks) , following rules apply.

   * Smart4Aviation Group networks or systems that allow access by external connections must:
   * restrict the connections to specific entry points (e.g. selected gateways),
   * have implemented a sort of DMZ between untrusted network like internet,
   * have traffic passing through firewalls configured in relevance to external network type,
   * allow access only to selected applications, services or part or (sub)domain of the Smart4Aviation Group network.
2. Access to the Smart4Aviation Group networks shall be restricted to devices that:

   * have been authorized,
   * have been correctly configured firewall and up-to-date malware protection,
   * Are connecting over private or encrypted network (e.g. via VPN).
3. Internal Smart4Aviation Group networks shall:

   * have anti-virus and malicious code checking solutions deployed on workstations,
   * be segregated into zones, with appropriate security controls between the zones deployed,
   * have Network Address Translation service deployed. Smart4Aviation Group network IP address range shall not be routable from the internet,
   * have access limited to known and trusted communication parties, with ACLs deployed where applicable,
   * be segmented, e.g. in such manner that devices or systems that provide services intended to be accessible from external networks shall be located in DMZ, devices with low trust level (eg. wireless access points) in dedicated security zone.

Configuration management
========================

1. Smart4Aviation Group networks and their components must have their configuration periodically audited.
2. There shall be a regular backup of configurations performed, with frequency and copy retention shall be established according to the service requirements or risk assessment. Backup copies shall be sufficiently secured.

Monitoring
==========

1. Smart4Aviation Group networks shall have some kind of protective monitoring solution implemented.
2. Smart4Aviation Group networks shall be implemented in such manner that it is possible to review the state of network at any given time. The information provided shall include traffic statistics, system utilization reports, status information, syslog, SNMP, ACL logging, archive configuration change logger, packet capture, device access information etc.
3. There shall be audit logs available that allow inspecting events such as who accessed network infrastructure component, what occurred and when, logging of user transactions, failed log-on attempts, failed re-authentication data, security gateway traffic breaches, audit log access, security-relevant system management events, configuration changes, alarms etc.
4. The monitoring shall be continuous, covering audit logs from components, alerts or alarms that are raised by appearance of certain event types in audit logs, output from IPS/IDS, network security scanning activity output, user reports. Smart4Aviation Group shall apply analysis tools that would help network monitoring.

VPN Policy
==========

1. Regarding confidentiality, data transfer between trusted and untrusted networks must use encryption of the data in order to prevent them from being compromised. There also shall be such mechanisms implemented that integrity of the data in transit is checking (e.g. by the means of message verification codes, message authentication codes and anti-replay mechanisms or integrity protection controls).
2. Establishment of tunnel and its usage must be done in concert with authorization controls and should include ACLs.
3. VPN mechanisms must be able to maintain appropriate audit logs for analysis of all actions regarding endpoints.
4. Virtual networks shall be hardened against hopping and other kinds of attacks.
5. VPN gateway must mutually authenticate with the device before allowing access.

Remote Connections
==================

1. By default, remote access to Smart4Aviation Group networks must be possible only via VPN. No direct remote connections to internal network components shall be possible.
2. As exception to the rule (1), internet access to selected Web services is allowed when relevant digital certificate is used. There shall be a process in place to govern issuing the certificates to individual users.

Wireless Networks
=================

1. Wireless-based network design and configuration must conform to its detailed policy.

Specific device or service type recommendations
===============================================

### 1. Routers and switches

1. Routers and switches must be hardened in order to prevent erroneous or malicious updates by:

* verifying source and destination of routing updates
* ensuring security of routed information, e.g. where possible - by encryption

### 2. Firewalls

1. There must be firewalls deployed to protect Smart4Aviation Group networks from malicious traffic from other networks.
2. Firewall rule policies should be based on blocking all inbound and outbound traffic, with exceptions made for desired traffic. There shall be a set of applications that may send traffic into or out of Smart4Aviation Group network and make firewall policies to block traffic for other applications.
3. Policies should take into account the source and destination of the traffic in addition to the content.

