# Open VPN

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170107980
**Page ID:** 170107980
**Version:** 22

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | @Kajetan Powała |
| **Author** | Bartłomiej Baszak |
| **Approvals** | @Wojciech Przybylski  @Jakub Zakrzewski  @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed)  @Paweł Kosecki |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Windows OpenVPN  <https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106376/Apple+OpenVPN?atl_f=PAGETREE> |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15388b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 1.0.0 |

Policy Description
------------------

Access to the internal S4A network from external locations is provided exclusively through the OpenVPN service. For security reasons and in accordance with company policies, the use of any other remote access tools is strictly prohibited.

OpenVPN requires additional software to be installed on your machines/phone/table.

Authentication is based on LDAP. You LDAP account has to be in group **cn=others,ou=openvpn,ou=groups,dc=s4a,dc=aero** or **cn=developers,ou=openvpn,ou=groups,dc=s4a,dc=aero** and whole installation/configuration procedure is described here:

* Windows OpenVPN.
* Apple OpenVPN

Known Limitations
-----------------

* IP addresses for VPN clients are strictly related to provided username and password. This requires only one connection for user. Do not share your username and password with other people.
* If your source ip address (the one you're connecting from) is from subnet **172.31.240.0/24** (or **172.16.0.0/12**) you will not be able to access computers inside Office network, however you should be able to access AirCanada machines and other machines in internet.
* To access Office machine using ip addresses instead of hostnames you need to change destination ip address for your connection. This solution is not recommended (but possible) and is described later.

