# Encryption and Cryptography Policy

Source: https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170105815  
Confluence Page ID: 170105815  
Version: 30

Type Of Document <Policy|Procedure|Standard|Guideline> Policy Owner <a role or concrete person> Author <@mention concrete person> Approvals <depends on approval strategy selected by Owner> <@mention concrete person1> <@mention concrete person2> <@mention .... > Effective From <“Immediately after publishing” or supply concrete date e.g. 1 Jan 2000 using Confluence calendar macro> Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines <links to documents, or description how to refer them> Review Lifecycle Review period: <specifiy exact period, up to 3y> or whenever important reasons arise <link to recurring task> Company <select the company/companies to which the document applies (usually all of them): AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k. AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V.> Version (optional), use numbering schema as per versioning of SUITE products Product versioning policy)

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | Chief Information Officer |
| **Author** | @Andrzej Kowal |
| **Approvals** | @Jakub Zakrzewski  @Wojciech Przybylski  @Michał Wacięga |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Cryptography Standard  Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Policy |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14718b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

The purpose of this policy is to establish specific minimum standards and responsibilities for the encryption of S4A and personal assets that access or process S4A Information. This policy is designed to ensure that the S4A manages encryption in a consistent manner and to appropriately safeguard access to all S4A assets.

Scope
=====

* All S4A Team Members
* All laptop and desktop devices used for S4A purposes
* All servers hosted in AWS cloud
* Selected S4A office data centers

  + New created virtual machines with TPM module
* Data and Information classified as Secret, Restricted, Sensitive (as per levels defined: Information Classification Policy)
* Services and vendors

Terms and definitions
=====================

Treat this section as glossary. Put all terms and definitions that appear in this document (see below examples):

*Smart4Aviation Group* - Understood as Smart4Aviation B.V., Smart4Aviation America, AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Team Member* - Smart4Aviation Group Employees, Mandate Contractors and Contractors and Subcontractor

Articles
========

Encryption
----------

Encryption must be used to protect data at rest and in transit by default. 

Data at rest:

* All S4A owned devices must have full disk encryption setup and enabled by default.
* Any personal device storing S4A information must have full disk encryption setup and enabled by default. (Subject of: Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Policy)
* Customer data under S4A custody shall be stored encrypted.
* In accordance with the risk level and requirements relevant to contract deliverables, S4A data processed by its contractors and vendors (third parties) shall be encrypted.

Data In Transit:
----------------

* When S4A information is transmitted outside secure S4A systems, it shall be encrypted in transit. Encryption in transit may include encrypting data by:

  + use of S4A VPN connection;
  + encrypting a portable hard disk being used to transfer data;
  + use of encrypted transmission protocols;
  + use of approved ciphers, as per Cryptography Standard.
* Customer data under S4A custody shall be encrypted in order to protect integrity and prevent eavesdropping in transit.
* Relevant to the risks posed, S4A data processed by its contractors and vendors (third parties) shall be encrypted. This shall be verified as per (Outdated) Supplier Security Risk Management Policy.

Device Encryption standards
---------------------------

All new laptops, tablets and portable storage devices purchased through IT Purchasing will be supplied with encryption pre-installed and enabled. Any memory stick or USB storage device may have encryption applied through an appropriate software tool. The encryption standards used for securing S4A purchased devices are:

* BitLocker AES-XTS standard, built into Microsoft Windows
* FileVault2 AES-XTS standard, built into Mac OSX
* LUKS AES-XTS standard, Linux hard disk encryption, by using cryptsetup tool, built into standard Linux distribution

**All mobile devices (smartphones) contain S4A data (such as mails, VPN configuration, 2FA tools) must be encrypted by using build int device encryption technology as per requirements defined at****Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Policy****. Password for unlocking must be set as well.**

Encryption keys
---------------

All encryption keys covered by this policy must be protected to prevent their unauthorized disclosure and subsequent fraudulent use.

Emncryption keys must be securely managed by dedicated senior IT Admin personnel.

All symmetrical encryption keys and private keys in asymmetrical pair must be protected.

Symmetric encryption algorithms and its keys must provide at least 128 bits of security.

Asymmetric encryption algorithms and its keys must provide at least 2048 bits of security (4096 recommended).

Keys management
---------------

* Environment-specific keys are stored in repository managed by S4A IT admins.
* All keys must be rotated at set interval (no longer than 3 years).
* Access to keys database is based on least privilege principle.
* Cryptographic keys are stored in minimal number of locations required for proper operation and backups.
* No single user or administrator has sole access to key (exception - private keys which are known only by owner)
* Logging and Auditing of should be available.
* Effective backup capabilities is available.
* By using LUKS more than one password is possible. All should being rotated and protected.
* Cryptographic keys are stored in the fewest possible locations.
* All SSH private keys copies (allowing to access to the S4A environments) should be stored on the encrypted storage.

Cryptography Standard
---------------------

The following Cryptography Standard describes in detail the S4A approach to customer data encryption, approved algorithms for each purpose and FIPS-140-2 compliance, 

Loss and Theft
--------------

The loss, theft, or potential unauthorized disclosure of any encryption key covered by this policy must be reported immediately as Security Incident, which must then apply proper actions that will be required regarding revocation of certificates or public-private key pairs.


