# Training Procedure

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170106790
**Page ID:** 170106790
**Version:** 21

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | Director Back Office |
| **Author** | @Sabina Weselak |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Sabina Weselak |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Traininig Policy  Training Standard |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-9488b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** |  |

Purpose
-------

The purpose for this procedure is to detailed described work instructions from start to finish to process the training request.

Scope
-----

All Team Members

Terms and definitions
---------------------

*Smart4Aviation Group* - Understood as Smart4Aviation B.V., Smart4Aviation America, AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. sp. k., AzimuthIT Sp. z o. o. or any other affiliate or subsidiary under common Smart4Aviation brand.

*Team Member* - Smart4Aviation Group Employees, Mandate Contractors and Contractors and Subcontractors

*Training request* - conferences, certificates or trainings request which meets the policy requirements and which is requested by JIRA, project: Training

*Traininig* - conferences, certificates, trainings.

Articles
--------

### Need

Trainings and conferences base on the needs of both, the Company and a team (or a Team Member).

### Subject of training

The subject of the training must be consistent with the direction in which the Company develops or/and must be focused on increasing the efficiency of work in the area the Team Member deals with.

### Time logging

Trainings need to be requested and accepted via Jira TRAIN project. Time spend on training needs to be logged directly via this ticket.

### Cost Center

Backoffice

### Manager

Manager needs to specify the maximum amount of time that can be spent on a given training by a Team Member. It's required to add ~20% time more to each training (Team Member may need to prepare him/herself to the trainig, he/she may need to go back to the trainig material once again to understand it better, etc) .

### Request

1. "Request" means the creation of a ticket in JIRA Training by Manager / Director / Team Member which contains:

   1. Project: Training
   2. Issue type: Training
   3. Training type:

      1. internal - for internal trainings and meetings, H&S trainings, 2-week onboarding and medical check
      2. external - for all trainings which were purchased from external provider
   4. In the description answer the questions:

      1. Does the training respond to the Company needs? Describe in which areas does the event meet the Company needs?
      2. What are the cost of:

         1. training / conference / certificate itself;
         2. journey;
         3. accommodation;
         4. deputation.
   5. On "Manager approval"

      1. provide the maximum amount of time that can be spent on a given training in "Original Estimate" field.
2. One ticket per Team Member is required (not applicable to group training, see above)
3. In your request use PLN currency and:

   1. NET value for employement and mandate contracors and
   2. GROSS value for B2B Contractors.

NOTE: when estimating costs, please enter the most pessimistic version of the cost.

### Training finalization

As soon as the training is done, a Team Member will be requested about:

* rating the training from 1 to 5 stars (where 1 is the lowest rating and 5 is the highest rating);
* writing to whom (what person or what position) you would recommend this training
* writing what percentage of the training material are you going to apply back at work

### Purchasing the order

As soon as the "Training request" is accepted, HR Team is responsible for informing when the training will be realized and purchase the Training. In essence, the payment is done by the Smart4Aviation Group. There are two exceptions to this rule:

1. for purchases of conferences or exam B2B Contractors are obliged to make the purchase themselves and then charge with S4A (gross amount for training + VAT)
2. for purchase online training through Udemy for people under an employment contract, they are required to make the purchase themselves, download an invoice from Udemy platform and attach it to the Order - on this basis, the Company will refund the cost of Udemy training. Additional attached form needs to be filled in and deliver to HR Team.

   1. PL PDF version: [Dofinansowanie\_szkolenia\_pracownik\_PL.pdf](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/download/attachments/170106790/Dofinansowanie_szkolenia_pracownik_PL.pdf?version=2&modificationDate=1697716515408&cacheVersion=1&api=v2)
   2. PL DOC version: [Dofinansowanie\_szkolenia\_pracownik\_PL.doc](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/download/attachments/170106790/Dofinansowanie_szkolenia_pracownik_PL.doc?version=1&modificationDate=1697716498101&cacheVersion=1&api=v2)
   3. ENG PDF version: [Dofinansowanie\_szkolenia\_pracownik\_ENG.pdf](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/download/attachments/170106790/Dofinansowanie_szkolenia_pracownik_ENG.pdf?version=1&modificationDate=1697716479423&cacheVersion=1&api=v2)
   4. ENG DOC version: [Dofinansowanie\_szkolenia\_pracownik\_ENG.doc](https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/download/attachments/170106790/Dofinansowanie_szkolenia_pracownik_ENG.doc?version=2&modificationDate=1697713362911&cacheVersion=1&api=v2)

### Delegation in JIRA

As soon as the "Request" is accepted and the training is external (outside the ofifce), a Team Member needs to create "Delegation" ticket in JIRA and linked it to JIRA Needs ticket. Information about JIRA Delegation can be found in the section C.

### Delegation in BambooHR

Team Member needs to request Time Off in BambooHR (Time off type: Delegation) if the training is external, outside the office.

### Cost

1. Cost of the trainings comes from the Training Budget held by the BackOffice.
2. Cost of transport, deputation and accommodation must be taken from the Training Budget.
3. Cost for trainings outside Poland needs to be estimated by the Travel Coordinator first.
4. Estimated costs for travel in Poland are presented below:

   |  | **average price in PLN (net)** |
   | --- | --- |
   | flight RT to KRK / GDN | 800 |
   | train KRK - GDN - KRK | 400 |
   | train GDN - KRK - GDN | 400 |
   | train KRK - WAW - KRK | 250 |
   | train GDN - WAW - GDN | 350 |
   | accommodation in KRK (1 night) | 450 |
   | accommodation in GDN (1 night) | 450 |
   | accommodation in WAW (1 night) | 450 |
   | deputation in Poland (per 1 day) | 45 |

