# Wireless Network Security Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170105917
**Page ID:** 170105917
**Version:** 14

---

Type Of Document <Policy|Procedure|Standard|Guideline> Policy Owner <a role or concrete person> Author <@mention concrete person> Approvals <depends on approval strategy selected by Owner> <@mention concrete person1> <@mention concrete person2> <@mention .... > Effective From <"Immediately after publishing" or supply concrete date e.g. using Confluence calendar macro> Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines <links to documents, or description how to refer them> Review Lifecycle Review period: <specifiy exact period, up to 3y> or whenever important reasons arise <link to recurring task>  Company <select the company/companies to which the document applies (usually all of them): AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k. AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V.> Version (optional), use numbering schema as per versioning of SUITE products https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170098861)

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | @Jakub Zakrzewski |
| **Author** | @Michał Wacięga |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Jakub Zakrzewski |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Network General Security Policy |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14668b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

This policy describes the approach to managing wireless corporate networks of Smart4Aviation Group, and outlines standards and key points of interest.

Objectives
==========

* To aid networks, especially wireless, to be designed and configured in order to maintain the availability, integrity and confidentiality properties.

Scope
=====

This policy applies to:

* all wireless networks within Smart4Aviation Group, be it internal or intended for Smart4Aviation Group guests
* all personnel of Smart4Aviation Group who design, implement, build, maintain or otherwise manage corporate network infrastructure.

General Network Security Policy Reference
=========================================

1. The Smart4Aviation Group wireless networks shall conform to general corporate network policies.

Wireless Network Segmentation
=============================

1. Wireless infrastructure must be separated from Smart4Aviation Group corporate networks, and access points shall not connect it directly.

2. The boundaries between Smart4Aviation Group wired and wireless networks, or between the wireless network and the internet shall have security-enforcing components deployed.

3. Guest network is allowed, however its users shall never have access to Smart4Aviation corporate networks, with proper network segregation between guest traffic and corporate traffic.

4. Users wishing to access enterprise network services must be in possession of the credentials required to pass through the VPN gateway. Wireless endpoints must authenticate with the VPN gateway after associating with the managed wireless infrastructure.

Authentication
==============

1. All user devices that wirelessly connect to Smart4Aviation Group networks must be authenticated.

2. Guest network must employ authentication before being granted access to internet.

Configuration
=============

1 All wireless network devices must support WPA2 or later standard. All wireless network devices must use CCMP.

2. Network components must be hardened against attacks by using appropriate security configuration.

3. Unneeded network connections, services and ports must be disabled. Having both wired and wireless network access at the same time shall be disallowed.

4. There shall be periodic pre-shared key changes if such keys are used to establish network associations. No PSKs shall be shared across multiple endpoint devices.

5. Access Points shall have WEP and TKIP disabled.

6. SSID shall be changed from its default.

7. Access points shall be physically deployed in such way that it would cover only office space to minimize unwanted area.

8. Access points shall be physically accessible only to authorized staff.

