# Policy Owner vs Author of procedures, standards, guidances and processes.

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/170102632
**Page ID:** 170102632
**Version:** 5

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Policy |
| **Policy Owner** | @Andrzej Kowal |
| **Author** | @Małgorzata Genzels-Stachniak ooo till 01.01.2026  @Michał Wacięga |
| **Approvals** | @Ivo Hop  @Sabina Weselak  @Wojciech Przybylski  @Arkadiusz Janik  @Marcin Kopacz  @Maciej Migacz |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidances** | Internal controls |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14588b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Description of a Policy Owner role:
-----------------------------------

### Who is a Policy Owner?

Policy Owner from the beginning to the end is responsible for direction of the creation of new policy/policies that reflect the organisation's needs, practices and strategic plans. Smart4Aviation Strategy and the resulting goals are the starting point for each policy.

### Task and duties:

* Clearly define the goal the policy should address. Ensure that management agrees with the objectives and supports your efforts.
* Create ticket in Jira (project SAS) and invite internal subject-matter experts, management to policy working teams. This is your work tool - leave notes, meeting notes, notes, create sub-tasks, link important documents, etc. After the date of implementation of this document.
* Get input from all roles and departments affected by policy (meetings, calls, etc). Discuss policy requirements with internal subject-matter experts. Consider forming a policy team with representatives from all or dedicated parts of your organization. All opinions, comments, summaries of conversations should be kept in a created ticket in JIRA SAS project
* Prepare the draft of the policy using appropriate template: Creating policy, procedures, standards and guidance. To ensure consistency and avoid confusing readers, draft outside the target space (where the document is published). This prevents unapproved edits from overwriting the approved content.
* Documents must include metadata (data about the document) that complies with company standards (see Creating policy, procedures, standards and guidance for approved format).
* Identify and ensure that policy quality factors are aligned with customer expectations
* Choose appropriate representatives of all stakeholder groups and ask for review (end-users, managers, c-level management, etc). Review comments and provide guidance for others how to interpret policy. Make sure that the persons selected for the review give it within the time limit set by you. Obtain final approval from upper management. For the review, set time limit (two-week review period, with reminder after a week) and assume that uncontested changes are considered approved.
* Decide whether the policy needs to be expanded further in the form of procedure, standard, guidance. If the extension is needed, prepare documents or appoint a responsible person (Author) by creating the task in JIRA SAS project.
* Plan implementation. Don't do it at random. Create a training plan: don't expect employees to read and remember. Compliance comes through thorough understanding. Select a list of positions that must become familiar with the policy. Provide training from top to bottom in the organization. Choose a policy training method such as internal training, presentation, etc and create the training ticket (for individuals, particular team or whole company) - Training Procedure. Train regularly as part of continuous improvement,. Inform employees about the place where they can ask the questions related with the policy and about the time in which you will answer the questions. Notify the HR department which positions are to become familiar with the policy during the onboarding proces.
* Establish a policy review cycle and ongoing measurement and reporting of outcomes (the same applies to documents: procedure, standard, guidance proces related to the policy). Recommended way is by means of a recurring Jira ticket. Reports of outcomes with agreed frequency could include reporting of:

  + Agreed Key Performance Indicators
  + Issues of Non-Compliance
  + Quality metrics.
* Make the necessary changes to the policy and related documents if they appear after the review. The introduction of changes to the policy and its dependent documents is subject to the above-described steps.

  Sample review questions:

  + Decide who the specific audience for the policy or procedure is?
  + What is the goal of the policy?
  + Has a compliance violation or incident occurred?
  + How will this document improve your company?
  + What are risks in the company that can illuminate any needed changes in current policy or the need for new policies?
  + If current policy isn't being adhered to well, ask why?
  + Is the format, design, publication method, training method of existing policy usable and readable?

  Pre-determined mesasurement criteria should be use in reviewing the policy.
* Make sure relevant labeling of the document is in place, as per Creating policy, procedures, standards and guidance.
* Publish the policy and documents related to the policy. When publishing,
* Communicate it to the relevant stakeholders, on appropriate channels (email, Slack channel etc.). Provide outline of change for staff to better understand it.

### Who assigns the role of a Policy Owner?

* Director of Department – if the policy is to contain rules that specify the responsibilities and required behavior of every individual in an Department.
* C-Level Management - if the policy is to contain rules that specify the responsibilities and required behavior of every individual in more than one Department.

Description of an Author role
-----------------------------

### Who is an Author?

Author  is any person in the organization who demonstrates expert knowledge (has experience in the field of the needed document).

### Tasks:

At the request of the Policy Owner (**Policy Owner create ticket in Jira, project: SAS containing all or some of the following tasks and assign this ticket to Author** ):

* Prepare the draft of the document: policy, procedure, standard, guidance or process using appropriate template: Creating policy, procedures, standards and guidance .
* Assist Policy Owner and lead the discussion with stakeholders during preparation of the policy review, planning and implementation.
* Establish a review cycle for document. In a situation when Author notices the need to make changes to the document, he should inform the Policy Owner about it. Policy Owner decides whether the changes will be implemented and if so, by whom.
* Publish the document.

### Who assigns the role of an Author?

Author is assigned either by Policy Owner. Ultimate responsibility for authoring the document is on Policy Owner, Author acts on his behalf.

Q&A
---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| We need a written document: procedure, standard, guidance or process but we don't have written policy. Who will be an Author? | Lack of a written document does not mean a lack of responsibilities, required behavior of every individual in the organization. Policy Owner will be the position responsible for these behaviors, e.g. Director Back Office is responsible for the HR area. In this case Policy Owner can also appoint an Author or write document by themselve. |
| As an Employee, I see a need for a document to be created: procedure, standard, guidance. What can I do? | * Create ticket in JIRA, project SAS. * Present arguments for the necessity to create a given document. * Assign a ticket to a person responsible for a given field or your supervisor. * Policy Owner after reviewing the arguments decides whether is a need of creating a policy, procedure, standard or guidance. If the extension is needed, Policy Owner prepares documents or appoints an Author. |
| Is Author responsible for updating documents and their correctness? | Policy Owner is responsible (the execution may be commissioned to the Author by Policy Owner) for establishing a review cycle for documents: procedure, standard, guidance related to the policy and for making the necessary changes in documents related to the policy if they appear after the review.  In a situation when Author notices the need to make changes to the document, he should inform the Policy Owner about it. Policy Owner decides whether the changes will be implemented and if so, by whom. |
| As an employee, I have a question related to a document: policy, procedure, standard or guidance. Whom should I ask? | * Policy Owner - questions related with policy   OR   * Author - questions related with procedure, standard and guidance. If Author doesn't know the answer, he should redirect the question to the Policy Owner. |
| Overall responsibility | Responsibility for the policy and related documents lies with the Policy Owner. Activities such as writing the document, updating it etc. can be delegated to an Author, but the responsibility is still on the Policy Owner's side. |

