# Endpoint Software Audit Procedure

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/1994686607
**Page ID:** 1994686607
**Version:** 28

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | Procedure |
| **Policy Owner** | @Kajetan Powała |
| **Author** | @Kajetan Powała |
| **Approvals** | @Kajetan Powała  @Bartłomiej Bujnarowski  @Paweł Kosecki  @Paweł Wadas (Unlicensed)  @Michał Wacięga  @Wojciech Przybylski  @Andrzej Kowal |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidances** | All documents in the Internal controls section Internal controls   * <https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/1994031275/Software+Audit+How-To?atl_f=PAGETREE> * Software Allow/Block List |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 1y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15328b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all)  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o. Sp.k.  AzimuthIT Sp. z o.o.  Smart4Aviation Technologies B.V. |
| **Version** | 1.0.0 |

This procedure applies only to AzimuthIT Sp. Z o.o. Sp. K. employees and B2B contractors.

### **Purpose**

This procedure outlines the procedure for systematically auditing software installed on company devices. The primary objective is to ensure compliance with security restrictions and **ISO 27001** standards. This procedure is a direct implementation of point 1, bullet-point 5 of the company's security policy, accessible at Protokół powierzenia mienia / Property entrustment protocol .

### **Scope and Responsibilities**

This procedure applies to all employees using company-provided devices. The **Internal Helpdesk Team** is responsible for conducting the periodic software reviews and ensuring the integrity of this process. The **Security Officer** is responsible for reviewing the monthly reports and providing oversight.

### **Procedure**

The software review will be carried out through the following steps:

1. **Notification:**   
   The **Internal Helpdesk Team** will contact a selected employee via email and Slack. The message will contain clear, detailed instructions for generating a list of installed software.  
   Said instruction can be found here: <https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/x/q4Dadg>
2. **Data Submission:**   
   Using a provided script, the employee is required to generate and submit two **CSV** files. These files will contain a comprehensive list of all installed software, categorized as both public and private applications. The employee must submit these files by the deadline specified in the notification. The **Internal Helpdesk Team** will assist in data gathering, if needed. Employees have two weeks from receiving an audit selection notification to submit both files. They will receive a reminder after one week if they have not submitted the files. If an employee is sick or on holiday, the submission period begins on their return date.
3. **Review and Analysis:**   
   The **Internal Helpdesk Team** will review the submitted lists. This review includes a comparison of the employee's software against the company's official list of approved and prohibited software. This list is maintained at <https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/x/BQDubw>. If necessary, the team will update the company's master list.
4. **Action and Reporting:**   
   If any prohibited software is discovered on a device, the **Internal Helpdesk Team** will take appropriate action in accordance with company security protocols. After each check is performed, the team will compile a monthly report detailing the findings. This report will be submitted to the **Security Officer** for review and documentation.

### **Audit Frequency and Selection**

Software audits will be conducted on a periodic, monthly basis. Each month, a random group of 15 employees will be selected for review.

* **Initial Checks:** The initial checks will involve a group of **15 employees per month**, **with no repetitions**. This process will continue until the software on every employee's device has been audited at least once.
* **Subsequent Checks:** Following the initial audit cycle, the selection will be a random group of **15 employees each month**, **with repetitions**. An employee may be randomly selected multiple times throughout the year.

### **Non-Compliance**

* **Failure to Cooperate:** The company reserves the right to directly review software on an employee's device if the employee fails to cooperate with the established procedure. This review may be conducted in person while the employee is in the office or remotely via Remote Desktop Protocol (**RDP**).
* **Discovery of Unauthorized Software:** If unauthorized or prohibited software is found on an employee's device, an additional review of that employee's device will be carried out during the next scheduled monthly check, in addition to the standard group of 15 employees.

**Internal Helpdesk Team:**  
@Bartłomiej Bujnarowski   
@Kajetan Powała   
  
**Security Officer:**  
@Michał Wacięga

---

### **Monthly Report Scheme:**

Date of audit: 01.01.2025  
Next aduit date: 01.02.2025

Selected employees for audit:  
1. Jane Doe  
2. John Doe  
3. Jane Jane Doe  
4. John John Doe

| **Employee who's software has been flagged** | **Reason** | **Taken actions** | **Results and next steps** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Jane Doe | Forbidden software has been found - unsupported VPN | Jane Doe has been asked to uninstall the application | * Jane Doe has confirmed deleting the software. * The software has been added to company's Block List. * Jane Doe has been flagged for the next monthly audit outside next selected group. |
| John Doe | Software that requires commercial license has been found. | Jane Doe has been asked to provide reasoning for using this software. Matter of license has been directed to Legal Team for research. | * License is free to use. * Security Team recognizes the software as not dangerous for the Company or it's Clients. * Software has been added to company's Allow List. |
| Jane Jane Doe | Software with unclear purpose for work has been found. | Security Team consulted about possible reservations. | * Security Team recognizes the software as not dangerous for the Company or it's Clients. * Software has been added to company's Allow List. |

**List of software:**  
- added to Allow List: xxxx, yyyy, zzzz  
- added to Block List: aaaa, bbbb, cccc

