# Vulnerability Management Policy

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/214794244
**Page ID:** 214794244
**Version:** 9

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | `Policy` |
| **Policy Owner** | @Michał Wacięga |
| **Author** | @Michał Wacięga |
| **Approvals** | @Andrzej Kowal  @Wojciech Przybylski  @Jakub Zakrzewski  @Adrian Królak  @Maciej Słota |
| **Effective From** | `Immediately after publishing` |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidelines** | Vulnerability Management Standard  CVSS score mapping to Jira priorities  Tenable.io vulnerability scoring mapping to Jira priorities |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: `1y` or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-14598b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | All |
| **Version** | 2.0.0 |

Purpose
=======

This policy describes Smart4Aviation's approach to vulnerability management, regardless of how the vulnerability was discovered. Vulnerabilities are treated as defects and are to be resolved according to the process governing given vulnerable component.

Identifying vulnerabilities
===========================

1. Vulnerability identification process enables S4A to identify and understand security weaknesses in the SUITE software, systems, both internal and cloud infrastructure and major applications. Identification standard is detailed in Vulnerability Management Standard.

2. The Vulnerability Management Program covers following IT areas where vulnerabilities might be found:

| **Area of Interest** | **Scope** |
| --- | --- |
| Individual software products | Vulnerabilities in the specific applications introduced due to design and implementation decisions by S4A |
| Integrated products (SUITE) | Vulnerabilities discoverable in a full-fledged integrated deployment rather than as low-level or by individual modules |
| Environments/Hosts/Networks (for both corporate and customer deployment purposes) | Vulnerable OS and its modules, vulnerable supporting tools and third party applications, misconfiguration (e.g. open ports) |
| AWS infrastructure (for both corporate and customer deployment purposes) | Vulnerabilities introduced in infrastructure (configuration) - AWS accounts, services, networks etc. |
| Infrastructure under customer's control | N/A - not in scope |

3. Vulnerabilties might be identified either as:

* native to Smart4Aviation product(s) or their configuration (introduced by Smart4Aviation)
* existing in the supporting systems/modules/applications (introduced by third parties)
* omissions and non-compliance with policies, standards or best practices (introduced by Smart4Aviation)

Evaluating vulnerabilities
==========================

4. Prior to any actions, vulnerability findings must be evaluated for its false-positiveness. This is true both regarding vulnerabilities manually found (e.g. as defects) where they must be reproductable, and vulnerabilities assessed against known vulnerability databases.

5. The default means of evaluating the vulnerabilities in order to appropriately deal with the threats they pose is CVSS scoring framework and its mapping to internal priorities.

6. In particular cases, where more information regarding is available esp. allowing for better risk assessment, other metrics might be selected. Particularly, such metrics that allow assessment of probability that given vulnerability would actually be exploited due to existing and widely available exploits, are preferrable.

Reporting vulnerabilities
==========================

7. Vulnerabilities are to be treated as defects and shall fall into same handling process including reporting.

8. Vulnerability reporting is implemented via Jira tickets. For easier querying, the Security label shall be assigned.

Treatment strategies
=====================

9. Vulnerabilities introduce security-related risks that might affect the business and the customers. Treatment follows following approaches:

Rejection
---------

9.1. Rejection as a treatment approach is allowed when the vulnerability is deemed to be a false positive. Due to risk of mis-classification of the vulnerability where it would not be treated properly and thus induce risks, decision should be consulted.

Remediation
-----------

9.2. Remediation involves fully fixing or patching a vulnerability so that in cannot be exploited. Remediation is the recommended and default option, even if in the short term other options might temporarily be selected as most feasible.

Mitigation
----------

9.3. Mitigation is allowed when full remediation is not possible. Mitigation involves reducing the likelihood that a vulnerability will be exploited by implementing compensating controls. This might be treated as a temporary workaround rather than long term/permanent solution where full remediation must be aimed for.

Acceptance
----------

9.4. Subject to prior assessment and security sign-off, acceptance is allowed for vulnerabilities that pose low risks, or where remediation is not feasible due to excessive cost which would likely exceed losses when the the vulnerability would indeed be exploited.

9.5. Depending on risks posed, acceptance might be permanent or time-based, where re-assessment is scheduled after elapsed time.

9.6. Acceptance is a default option to consider in legacy systems i.e. SUITE product version lower than 5.x., systems where replacement is planned e.g. migration to cloud etc. Despite being default in such cases, the vulnerability acceptance is not automatic though and still requires prior risk analysis and CIO sign-off.

