# Minor and Maintenance mobile operating system support

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/245170235
**Page ID:** 245170235
**Version:** 12

---

Goal
====

The goal of this policy is to clarify support of minor and maintenance/patch versions of mobile operating systems.

Definitions
===========

* Mobile operating system versioning scheme consists of three numbers in x.y.z (for example iPadOS 18.2.1)

  + x is major
  + y is minor
  + z is maintenance/bug fixing
* Major mobile operating system release version is represented by the foremost number (for example iPadOS 18)
* Maintenance/bug fix or even minor may be not available for some versions (for example iPadOS 18.2)
* Mobile operating systems are in scope of this policy

  + iPadOS

Scope
=====

This policy applies to following products and mobile operating system:

* S4A Smart PORTAL Mobile iOS on iPadOS

This policy applies only to released versions of minor mobile operating system. Beta and release candidate versions are not tested.

Out of scope
============

This policy doesn't apple to following products and mobile operating system:

* ACA GLOBE IFS for Android
* ACA GLOBE FOPS for Android
* ACA GLOBE IFS for iOS and emulated on iPadOS
* ACA GLOBE FOPS for iOS and emulated on iPadOS
* ACA CAL for iOS and emulated on iPadOS

Responsibilities
================

* Product team tracks new minor versions of iPadOS. Information about new versions is send to #product-ios from <https://developer.apple.com/news/releases/> feed.
* Product team uses slack channel #topic-mobile-os-update with mobile testers and support responsible for mobile customers
* Up to two weeks after official release product team confirms compatibility (Smoke Test) with new minor version of iPadOS.
* If application is compatible and doesn't require any fix IC/Support sends information to customer according to communication template.
* If application is not compatible and requires fix IC/Support sends information to customer according to communication template and product team schedules fixes.
* Product team is responsible to always update iPads to latest minor or maintenance version.
* There is no dedicated compatibility test for maintenance version but if any major issue is detected during regular tests customer has to be informed.

Communication template
======================

<NEW MINOR VERSION> - for example 18.2

*<MAJOR.MINOR>* - for example 7.0 (without maintenance version)

Application is compatible
-------------------------

*Dear Customer,*

*We would like to confirm that S4A Smart PORTAL Mobile iOS <MAJOR.MINOR> is compatible with iPadOS <NEW MINOR VERSION>.*

*Regards,*

*Smart4Aviation*

Application is not compatible
-----------------------------

*Dear Customer,*

*We would like to inform that S4A Smart PORTAL Mobile iOS <MAJOR.MINOR> is NOT compatible with iPadOS <NEW MINOR VERSION>. We plan to deliver application on <DATE>. Till then please keep iPadOS upgrade on hold.*

*Regards,*

*Smart4Aviation*

Resources
=========

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOS_version_history>

<https://developer.apple.com/news/releases/>

<https://developer.apple.com/documentation/packagedescription/version>

