# Major mobile operating system support

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4A/pages/246153246
**Page ID:** 246153246
**Version:** 15

---

Goal
====

The goal of this policy is to clarify support of major versions of mobile operating systems.

Definitions
===========

* Mobile operating system versioning scheme consists of three numbers in x.y.z (for example iPadOS 18.2.1)

  + x is major
  + y is minor
  + z is maintenance/bug fixing
* Major mobile operating system release version is represented by the foremost number (for example iPadOS 18, Android 14)
* Maintenance/bug fix or even minor may be not available for some versions (for example iPadOS 18.2, Android 14)
* Mobile operating systems are supported mobile system

  + iOS
  + iPadOS
  + Android

Scope
=====

This policy applies to the following products and mobile operating system:

* ACA GLOBE IFS for Android
* ACA GLOBE FOPS for Android
* ACA GLOBE IFS for iOS and emulated on iPadOS
* ACA GLOBE FOPS for iOS and emulated on iPadOS
* ACA CAL for iOS and emulated on iPadOS
* S4A Smart PORTAL Mobile iOS on iPadOS

General policy rules
====================

* It is Supplier's responsibility to keep applications current with OEM latest Operating Systems.
* The current and the previous major mobile operating system version is supported. For example in August 2022 the current version of iPadOS is 15 thus iPadOS 15 and iPadOS 14 are supported systems.
* Beta releases are not supported.
* There is a grace  support period (3 months) for mobile operating system version that became unsupported due to new major mobile operating system version release.
* Grace period begins after new major mobile operating system version is introduced by its manufacturer. New features are not implemented for unsupported mobile operating system versions during and after grace period. After the end of grace period the application version on mobile operating system lower than previous mobile operating system major version will not receive updates, fixes and may be disabled. Grace period length is 3 months. For example, in September 2021 iPadOS 15 was released. In grace period between October and December 2021 iPadOS 13, iPadOS 14 and iPadOS 15 were supported. After 3 months grace period only iPadOS 14 and iPadOS 15 are supported.
* The date of changes and upgrades to mobile operating systems to be mutually agreed between the Parties.

- *Please note that for old ACA contract all ACA apps have 4 months of grace period*

Responsibilities
================

* Product team creates epics for Android and iOS project to handle all activities related to testing and fixing compatibility (for example ANDROID-10068b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira, IOS-92668b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira)
* Product team validates and fix issues related to compatibility
* Product team uses slack channel #topic-mobile-os-update with mobile testers and support responsible for mobile customers
* Support sends communication about new version of operating system to customer according to template
* Up to three weeks before official release product team releases and delivers applications tested on beta release for customer internal tests
* Up to one week after release product team delivers (if required) new versions of mobile applications tested on official release. If new version is not required IC sends confirmation about compatibility with latest version of mobile operating system according to template.

Communication templates
=======================

<NEW VERSION> - for example 18, 14

<EXPECTED RELEASE DATE> - for example September 2024

Information about new version of operating system
-------------------------------------------------

### Air Canada

#### Android

*Dear Customer,*

*Android <NEW VERSION> mobile operating system is going to be released soon. There is no official release date yet but assuming similar release cycle as in previous years it is expected in <EXPECTED RELEASE DATE>. We are currently testing compatibility of Mobile Applications with a beta release. We are going to release and deliver compatible application **three weeks** before official release for your internal tests. Nevertheless, we are also going to retest application after official release to make sure that there are no new issues related to the new build of operating system. We need **one week** after official release to confirm compatibility. We do not expect major issues but till then upgrade to the new version of system is not recommended.*

*Regards,*

*Smart4Aviation*

#### iOS and iPadOS

*Dear Customer,*

*Apple iOS <NEW VERSION> and iPadOS <NEW VERSION> mobile operating systems are going to be released soon. There is no official release date yet but assuming similar release cycle as in previous years it is expected in <EXPECTED RELEASE DATE>. We are currently testing compatibility of Mobile Applications with a beta releases. We are going to release and deliver compatible application **three weeks** before official release for your internal tests. Nevertheless, we are also going to retest application after official release to make sure that there are no new issues related to the new build of operating system. We need **one week** after official release to confirm compatibility. We do not expect major issues but till then upgrade to the new version of system is not recommended.*

*Regards,*

*Smart4Aviation*

### Smart PORTAL Mobile iOS customers

*Dear Customer,*

*Apple iPadOS <NEW VERSION> mobile operating system is going to be released soon. There is no official release date yet but assuming similar release cycle as in previous years it is expected in <EXPECTED RELEASE DATE>. We are currently testing compatibility of Mobile Applications with a beta release. We are going to release and deliver compatible application **three weeks** before official release for your internal tests. Nevertheless, we are also going to retest application after official release to make sure that there are no new issues related to the new build of operating system. We need **one week** after official release to confirm compatibility. We do not expect major issues but till then upgrade to the new version of system is not recommended.*

*Regards,*

*Smart4Aviation*

Confirmation about compatibility with latest version of mobile operating system
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Dear Customer,*

*We would like to confirm that Smart PORTAL Mobile iOS MAJOR.MINOR.MTCE/IFS MAJOR.MINOR.MTCE/FOPS MAJOR.MINOR.MTCE is compatible with iOS/iPadOS/Android <NEW VERSION>.*

*Regards,*

*Smart4Aviation*

Resources
=========

Information about new version of systems. Usually, it is enough to just change a number

* <https://developer.android.com/about/versions/13>
* <https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-16-preview/>
* <https://www.apple.com/ipados/ipados-16-preview/>

