# Hardware insurance list procedure

**Source URL:** https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S4AIH/pages/334365211
**Page ID:** 334365211
**Version:** 9

---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Type Of Document** | `Procedure` |
| **Policy Owner** | @Kajetan Powała |
| **Author** | @Kajetan Powała |
| **Approvals** | @Sabina Weselak  @Wojciech Przybylski  @Arkadiusz Janik  @Marcin Kopacz  @Maciej Migacz |
| **Effective From** | Immediately after publishing |
| **Linked policies / procedures / standards / guidances** |  |
| **Review Lifecycle** | Review period: 3y or whenever important reasons arise  SAS-15278b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira |
| **Company** | (all) |

First thing you need to do is get access to a task below, in which are two lists of equipment that have to be insured. There are separate list for equipment for KRK and GDN office. If you are assigned to the task, every month it will turn on from hibernation and remind you to update the lists.

INTHELP-19248b6fd100-5a64-3d8f-8f9d-41b95d1c8c85System Jira

In the description of the task, there is included a special filter that will show you every single device in the office that is financed from S4A budget and need to be insured.

`project = "Hardware Management" AND resolution = Unresolved AND "Funding method[Dropdown]" = "S4A financing" and "Purchase date[Date]" >= "2019-01-01" AND type IN(Laptop, Tablet, "Monitor/LCD Display", Telephone, "PC/Workstation", Server, "Docking Station") and "Hardware sticker ID[Paragraph]" IS NOT EMPTY and "Hardware sticker ID[Paragraph]" ~ "KRK*" ORDER BY cf[19014] DESC`

The important thing is to apply the filter to the Jira searching in **JQL** view. It will be easier and faster to proceed.  
**For GDN change** ***"Hardware sticker ID[Paragraph]" ~ "GDN\*"*****.**

Next, you need to download the list of your office and open it in the Microsoft Excel. Each of two lists are divided on two parts. The upper one is for - **P**- portable devices and the bottom one is for - **S** - stationary devices.

Now, when you have the list open, search for the new equipment in the filtered list in Jira. There is no filter, that will show you which devices are already on the list, or there is no division on KRK and GDN equipment.

On the list, check the latest ID number and look for new ones in Jira. Add them to the right list. PC-s, docking stations, monitors, switches, routers etc. to the stationary list and laptops, smartphones, tablets (iPads are also tablets ) to the Portable list. Add the name of the hardware, it's gross replacement amount, ID number, type of device, kind of device and year of production. Create a new row for it if needed.

All the new hardware of the month mark on yellow, it will be easier to recognize them for the person responsible for insurance. Make sure that the new cells with gross replacement amount are included in the sum cell, which is next to the upper right part of the table.

**Do that separately with both parts of the table.**

After adding all devices funded by "S4A financing" next step is to add all devices after leasing  
In the description of the task, there is included a special filter that will show you every single device in the office that is purchased from leasing.

Filter:  
`project = "Hardware Management" AND "Leasing End Date[Date]" is not EMPTY and status != Closed AND "Funding method[Dropdown]" = Leasing ORDER BY cf[19019] ASC`

After applying filter on Jira go to page with leasing purchases <https://smart4aviation.atlassian.net/wiki/x/boAxFw> and find all assets where "**Data wykupu**" is before current date and apply them on the sheet  
  
Next step is to make sure that every single added to sheet device from leasing list is purchased and update their Funding method in Jira tickets to "S4A Financing"

When you make sure every new device is on the list and the data are correct, apply all changes to online version of sheet<https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HR254RuDJv71PCBlW9pRm1zKn0ggGXPPS_hpDrPFVyY/edit?usp=sharing> and upload the new list into the task and wait a month to repeat the procedure.

**Every year -10% to value of all items and remove sold, disposed and older then 7 years. (KRK- sept/oct) (GDN - feb/march)**
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

